Data Loam : sometimes hard, usually soft : the future of knowledge systems
Als Reaktion auf die dominante Wirkkraft und Deutungshoheit des Digitalen vereint Data Loam auf der Basis von Positionen der internationalen zeitgenössischen Kunstpraxis radikale Denkansätze. Vorbei: das Beharren auf Indexikalität und die instrumentelle Reduktion des Wissens. Stattdessen: eine neue Metrik, die Spiel, Neugier, Experiment und Risiko fordert. Als dringende Antwort auf die stetig wachsende Informationsflut, der Bibliotheken, Suchmaschinen und kulturelle Einrichtungen ausgesetzt sind, werden Ansätze entwickelt, die sinnliche Logik, kausale Durchlässigkeit und neue Formen der Mensch-Maschine-Interaktion anregen und erlauben. Data Loam beleuchtet die Zukunft von Wissenssystemen in Texten zu künstlicher Intelligenz, Kybernetik und Kryptoökonomie: als Gegenmittel zur Zerstreuung apokalyptischer Ängste
Frontmatter -- Contents -- Introduction -- Know Your Name: A Short History of Occidental Knowledge Systems since the Renaissance -- Science Fictioning Singularities: The Diagrammatic Imaginaries of Physics -- Artificial Grief: Distribution of the Sensuous -- Pursuing Digital Transformations through Fluorescent Green Bunnies: The Poetics of Technology -- Archiving for an Unknown Future: The State Film Documentation of the GDR (SFD) -- On Classification or Wonder Is the Denial of Analogy -- ALGO-RHYTHM: A Hip-Hop Film about Microtargeting and Online Electioneering -- Crypto Politics: Notes on Sociotechnical Imaginaries of Governance in Blockchain Based Technologies -- Asymmetry: How Patterns of Impossibility Mark Dimensions in Knowledge Systems -- Obscene Data -- Data Loam. Sometimes Hard, Usually Soft. Exhibition AIL, Angewandte Innovation Lab -- Exhibition Map -- Anna Nazo -- Jimmy Zurek -- Martin Reinhart and Virgil Widrich -- Henry Rogers -- Dario Srbic -- RIAT—Institute for Future Cryptoeconomics -- Johnny Golding -- Marthin Rozo Castaño -- Marc Schuran -- Monica C. LoCascio -- Juan Cruz -- Manu Luksch -- Julian Palacz -- Sophie-Carolin Wagner -- Mattia Paganelli -- Leonard Coster and Matthias Strohmaier -- Florian Unterberger -- Laura Stoll -- Despina Zacharopoulou -- Maurice Ernst -- Aura Satz -- Istem Özen -- Johannes Frauenschuh and Maximilian Gallo -- Nora Lengyel -- DARC -- Publication Team (Maximilian Gallo, Ivonne Gracia Murillo, Monica C. LoCascio, Istem Özen) -- Book Designing in the Age of the Loam -- ReMembering -- Exquisite Methods: Ruminations of Corporeal Becoming in Artistic Research -- Diffractive Care and the Careful Accounting of It -- Headwind, a Scanning Story -- Renegade Activism and the Artist-as-Collective -- The Courage to Matter -- Evanescing This Harrowed Strata -- Acknowledgements -- Imprint
As a reaction to the dominant effect and interpretive authority of the digital, Data Loam combines radical approaches based on positions taken in the international practice of contemporary art. Previously: insistence on indexicality and the instrumental reduction of knowledge. Instead: a new metric that requires play, curiosity, experiment, and risk. As an urgent response to the continually growing flood of information that libraries, search engines, and cultural institutions are exposed to, the authors develop approaches that suggest and permit sensual logic, causal permeability, and new forms of man–machine interaction. Data Loam focuses on the future of knowledge systems in texts about artificial intelligence, cybernetics, and cryptoeconomics – as a means of counteracting end-of-the-world fears
