The 1st International Workshop on the Quality of Geodetic Observation and Monitoring Systems (QuGOMS'11) : proceedings of the 2011 IAG International Workshop, Munich, Germany, April 13-15, 2011
Part I Uncertainty modeling of geodetic data -- 1. Modeling Data Quality Using Artificial Neural Networks -- 2. Magic Square of Real Spectral and Time Series Analysis with an Application to Moving Average Processes -- 3. Describing the Quality of Inequality Constrained Estimates -- 4. GNSS Integer Ambiguity Validation Procedures: Sensitivity Analysis -- 6. Optimal Design of Deformation Monitoring Networks Using the Global Optimization Methods -- Part II Theoretical Studies on Combination Strategies and Parameter Estimation -- 7. Towards the Combination of Data Sets from Various Observation Techniques -- 8. On the Weighted Total Least Squares Solutions -- 9. Integration of Observations and Models in a Consistent Least Squares Adjustment Model -- 10. Comparison of Different Combination Strategies Applied for the Computation of Terrestrial Reference Frames and Geodetic Parameter Series -- 11. W-Ratio Test as an Integer Aperture Estimator: Pull-in Regions and Ambiguity Validation Performance -- 12. Performing 3D Similarity Transformation Using the Weighted Total Least-Squares Method -- 13. Comparison of Spatial Analyzer and Different Adjustment Programs. Part III Recursive State-Space Filtering -- 14. State-Space Filtering With Respect to Data Imprecision and Fuzziness -- 15. Unscented Kalman Filter Algorithm with Colored Noise and its Application in Spacecraft Attitude Estimation -- 16. Principles and Comparisons of Various Adaptively Robust Filters with Applications in Geodetic Positioning -- 17. Alternative Nonlinear Filtering Techniques in Geodesy for Dual State and Adaptive Parameter Estimation -- Part IV Sensor Networks and Multi Sensor Systems in Engineering Geodesy -- 18. Parametric Modeling of Static and Dynamic Processes in Engineering Geodesy -- 19. Land subsidence in Mahyar plain, Central Iran, studied using SBAS-InSAR Method. 20. Recent Impacts of Sensor Network Technology on Engineering Geodesy -- 21. Design of Artificial Neural Networks for Change-Point Detection. 22. Spatial and Temporal Kinematics of the Inylchek Glacier in Kyrgyzstan Derived From Lands at and ASTER Imagery -- 23. Response Automation in Geodetic Sensor Networks by Means of Bayesian Networks. 24. Efficiency Optimization of Surveying Processes -- 25. Modeling and Propagation of Quality Parameters in Engineering Geodesy Processes in Civil Engineering -- Part V Multi-Mission Approaches With View to Physical Processes in the Earth System -- 26. Completion of band-limited data sets on the sphere
