Asymptotic methods in probability and statistics : a volume in honour of Miklós Csörgő ; [ICAMPS '97, an International Conference on Asymptotic Methods in Probability and Statistics was organized and held in honour of Miklós Csörgő at the Carleton University, Ottawa, Canada 8 - 13 July, 1997]
One of the aims of the conference on which this book is based, was to provide a platform for the exchange of recent findings and new ideas inspired by the so-called <IT>Hungarian construction</IT> and other approximate methodologies. This volume of 55 papers is dedicated to Mikl̤s Cs̲rg & odblac; a co-founder of the <IT>Hungarian construction school</IT> by the invited speakers and contributors to ICAMPS'97. This excellent treatize reflects the many developments in this field, while pointing to new directions to be explored. An unequalled contribution to research in probability and statistics
Part 1: Limit Theorems for variously mixing and quasi-associated random variables. -- -- Part 2: Central limit theorems for logarithmic averages. -- -- Part 3: Strong approximations, weighted approximations. -- -- Part 4: Emperical distributions and processes. -- -- Part 5: Iterated random walks. -- -- Part 6: Fine analytic path behaviour of the oscillations of stochastic processes. -- -- Part 7: Multiparameter stochastic processes. -- -- Part 8: Results related to studies of local time and hitting times of Bessel processes, a cautionary note on limiting sigma-algebras. -- -- Part 9: Large deviations, small ball problems, self normalization. -- -- Part 10: Stochastic bifurcation. -- -- Part 11: Change-point analysis, u-statistics, non-smooth functions, comparison distributions. -- -- Part 12: Emperical reliability, survival analysis. -- -- Part 13: Gaussian bootstrap, Monte Carlo simulation. -- -- Part 14: Autoregressive and moving average schemes -- -- Part 15: Nonparametric curve estimations, regression diagnostics. -- -- Part 16: Testing statistical hypotheses. -- -- Part 17: Tail index estimation, order statistics of order statistics
