Engineering Self-Organising Systems (vol. # 3910) : Third International Workshop, ESOA 2005, Utrecht, The Netherlands, July 25, 2005, Revised Selected Papers
Self-organising Mechanisms -- T-Man: Gossip-Based Overlay Topology Management -- Basic Approach to Emergent Programming: Feasibility Study for Engineering Adaptive Systems Using Self-organizing Instruction-Agents -- ETTO: Emergent Timetabling by Cooperative Self-organization -- Self-adaptation and Dynamic Environment Experiments with Evolvable Virtual Machines -- Choose Your Tribe! – Evolution at the Next Level in a Peer-to-Peer Network -- Exchange Values and Self-regulation of Exchanges in Multi-agent Systems: The Provisory, Centralized Model -- A New Protocol to Share Critical Resources by Self-organized Coordination -- Methodologies, Models and Tools -- Information-Driven Phase Changes in Multi-agent Coordination -- Self-organising Applications Using Lightweight Agents -- Solving Dynamic Distributed Constraint Satisfaction Problems with a Modified Weak-Commitment Search Algorithm -- Development of Self-organising Emergent Applications with Simulation-Based Numerical Analysis -- On the Role of Simulations in Engineering Self-organising MAS: The Case of an Intrusion Detection System in TuCSoN -- Mesoscopic Modeling of Emergent Behavior – A Self-organizing Deliberative Minority Game -- Applications -- Pheromone Model: Application to Traffic Congestion Prediction -- How Bee-Like Agents Support Cultural Heritage -- Sift and Sort: Climbing the Semantic Pyramid -- Agent-Based Control of Spatially Distributed Chemical Reactor Networks -- A Study of System Nervousness in Multi-agent Manufacturing Control System.
The idea that self-organisation and emergence can be harnessed for the purpose of solving tricky engineering problems is becoming increasingly accepted. - searchers working in many diverse ?elds (such as networks, distributed systems, operating systems and agent systems) are beginning to apply this new approach. This book contains recent work from a broad range of areas with the common theme of utilising self-organisation productively. As distributed information infrastructures continue to spread (such as the Internet, wireless and mobile systems), new challenges have arisen demanding robust and scalable solutions. In these new challenging environments the - signers and engineers of global applications and services can seldom rely on centralised control or management, high reliability of devices, or secure en- ronments. At the other end of the scale, ad-hoc sensor networks and ubiquitous computing devices are making it possible to embed millions of smart computing agents into the local environment. Here too systems need to adapt to constant failures and replacement of agents and changes in the environment, without human intervention or centralised management.
