Perspectives on chemical biography in the 21st century
The new trend of university archives in Japan : the implications of Riko Majima's diaries as sources of the history of modern chemistry /Masanori Kaji --Ghost science : writing the history of 21st century science /Jorge C. G. Calado --Toward a biography of carbon : between nature and society /Bernadette Bensaude-Vincent --Working with oral history : from classical chemistry to synthetic biology /Jeffrey Allan Johnson --The role of oral history in the history of 20th century Brazilian chemistry /Ana M. Alfonso-Goldfarb, Marcia H. M. Ferraz, Silvia Waisse --Talking with the living : what methodology is appropriate for contemporary history of chemistry? /Muriel Le Roux --Writing a biography of the quantum chemist Charles Alfred Coulson : between science, religion and politics /Ana Simões --The personal factor : Don Yost and the (lack of) progress in inorganic chemistry at Caltech, 1920-1965 /Jay A. Labinger --Ludwik Wertenstein (1887-1945) : a physicist and physical chemist in the light of his memoirs /Marcin Dolecki --A Nobel Prize for energetics? Wilhelm Ostwald, catalysis and energeticism /Letícia dos Santos Pereira, Olival Freire Júnior, Artur José Santos Mascarenhas --Henry Moseley 1887-1915 /Gordon Woods --A collective biography of an emerging professional group : chemists granted by the Caisse nationale des sciences (National Fund for Sciences) in the 1930s /Martine Sonnet --Biographies of outstanding natural scientists, technicians and physicians : a project on the history of science in the GDR /Gisela Boeck --"Lectiones Vilnenses Andreae Sniadecki" : practice of heritage dissemination /Birute Railiene --What can chemists and the public learn from biographies of chemists? /Sérgio P. J. Rodrigues --The unsuspected chemical skills of Albrecht Dürer : the chemistry behind his palette /Maria T. S. R. Gomes --Chemistry and experts : Antonio Casares-Rodríguez, and his son José Casares-Gil as a scientific family /Ignacio Suay-Matallana --A double vocation /Willem G. Vijvers --The Life of Udagawa Youan and his natural science translations : his translation of light and heat reactions in Kouso Seimika /Yona Siderer --Biography and laboratories : the case of August Wilhelm Hofmann /Peter J. T. Morris --Glassblowers and scientists : the forgotten link /João A. B. P. Oliveira, António Morais --The chemist Sebastião Betâmio de Almeida (1817-1864) : between teaching, industrial activity and intervention in the Leiria pine forest /Ana Cardoso de Matos, Ignacio Garcia Pereda --A case study : the chemist and researcher Joaquim de Santa Clara Sousa Pinto (1803-1876) /Maria da Luz Sampaio, Isabel Neves Cruz --Teaching physical sciences in nineteenth-century Spain : Professor Mariano Santisteban (1821-1886) /Jose-Antonio Pariente Silván.
"Overlooked, even despised by historians of chemistry for many years, the genre of biography has enjoyed a revival since the beginning of this century. The key to its renaissance is the use of the biographical form to provide a contextual analysis of important themes in contrast to the uncritical, almost hagiographic, lives of chemists written in the earlier part of the twentieth century. Bringing together the contributions of scholars active in several different countries, Perspectives on Chemical Biography in the 21st Century leads the reader through emerging questions around sources, and the generic problems faced by authors of biographies, before moving on to discuss aspects more related with physical, theoretical and inorganic chemistry, and facets of 19th century chemistry. In contrast to the letters and diaries of earlier chemists, we are now faced with scientists who communicate by telephone and email, and compose their documents on computers. Are we facing a modern equivalent of the destruction of the Library of Alexandria where all our sources are wiped out electronically?"--
