X-Ray Lasers 2014 : Proceedings of the 14th International Conference on X-Ray Lasers
These proceedings comprise invited and contributed papers presented at the 14th International Conference on X-Ray Lasers (ICXRL 2014). This conference is part of a continuing series dedicated to recent developments and applications of x-ray lasers and other coherent x-ray sources with attention to supporting technologies and instrumentation. New results in the generation of intense, coherent x-rays and progress toward practical devices and their applications in numerous fields are reported. Areas of research in plasma-based x-ray lasers, 4th generation accelerator-based sources and higher harmonic generation, and other x-ray generation schemes are covered. The scope of ICXRL 2014 included, but was not limited to: Laser-pumped X-ray lasers Discharge excitation and other X-ray laser pumping methods Injection/seeding of X-ray amplifiers New lasing transitions and novel X-ray laser schemes High Harmonic sources-Free-electron laser generation in the XUV and X-ray range Novel schemes for coherent XUV and X-ray generation XUV and X-ray optics and metrology-Driving laser technology Theory and modeling of X-ray gain medium and beam characteristics Applications of high brightness and ultrashort X-ray sources.
1. Progress and Prospects of Coherent X-Ray Research Using High Power Lasers in Japan Atomic Energy Agency -- 2. Advances in High Average Power, 100 Hz Repetition Rate Table-top Soft X-Ray Lasers -- 3. Possibility of Recombination Gain Increase in CV Ions at 4.0nm via Coherence -- 4. Overview of development of laser driven secondary sources at PALS and ELI -- 5. Spectral properties of collisional XUV lasers for the amplification of femtosecond pulses -- 6. Transient collisionally excited x-ray Lasers pumped with one long and two short pulses -- 7. Seeded operation of a Ne-like Titanium soft x-ray laser -- 8. Output beam polarization of x-ray lasers with transient inversion -- 9. Improved sub-10nm Ni-like lasing by varying the slope of the traveling-wave velocity -- 10. Temporal response of seeded XUV lasers under different amplification regimes- inversion density threshold -- 11. Self-photopumped x-ray lasers from elements in the Ne-like and Ni-like ionization state -- 12. Pump-Probe Experiment for Temporal Profile Measurement of Plasma X-ray laser -- 13. Capillary discharge X-ray Lasers: the Quest for sub-10nm Lasers.
