Artificial Neural Networks — ICANN 2001 : International Conference Vienna, Austria, August 21–25, 2001 Proceedings
This book is based on the papers presented at the International Conference on Arti?cial Neural Networks, ICANN 2001, from August 21–25, 2001 at the - enna University of Technology, Austria. The conference is organized by the A- trian Research Institute for Arti?cal Intelligence in cooperation with the Pattern Recognition and Image Processing Group and the Center for Computational - telligence at the Vienna University of Technology. The ICANN conferences were initiated in 1991 and have become the major European meeting in the ?eld of neural networks. From about 300 submitted papers, the program committee selected 171 for publication. Each paper has been reviewed by three program committee m- bers/reviewers. We would like to thank all the members of the program comm- tee and the reviewers for their great e?ort in the reviewing process and helping us to set up a scienti?c program of high quality. In addition, we have invited eight speakers; three of their papers are also included in the proceedings. We would like to thank the European Neural Network Society (ENNS) for their support. We acknowledge the ?nancial support of Austrian Airlines, A- trian Science Foundation (FWF) under the contract SFB 010, Austrian Society ¨ for Arti?cial Intelligence (OGAI), Bank Austria, and the Vienna Convention Bureau. We would like to express our sincere thanks to A. Flexer, W. Horn, K. Hraby, F. Leisch, C. Schittenkopf, and A. Weingessel. The conference and the proceedings would not have been possible without their enormous contri- tion.
Invited Papers -- Data Analysis and Pattern Recognition -- Theory -- Kernel Methods -- Topographic Mapping -- Independent Component Analysis -- Signal Processing -- Time Series Processing -- Special Session: Agent-Based Economic Modeling -- Selforganization and Dynamical Systems -- Robotics and Control -- Vision and Image Processing -- Computational Neuroscience -- Connectionist Cognitive Science.
