Mathematics and computation in music : 7th International Conference, MCM 2019, Madrid, Spain, June 18-21, 2019 : proceedings
Plenary talks --Contrapuntal aspects of the mystic chord and Scriabin's Piano sonata no. 5 --Octavio A. Agustín-Aquino, Guerino Mazzola --ComMute-towards a computational musical theory of everything /Guerino Mazzola --Algebraic and other abstract mathematical approaches to understanding musical objects --Groupoids and wreath products of musical transformations: a categorical approach from poly-Klumpenhouwer networks /Alexandre Popoff, Moreno Andreatta, Andrée Ehresmann --Fourier phase and pitch-class sum /Dmitri Tymoczko, Jason Yust --Categories, musical instruments, and drawings: a unification dream /Maria Mannone, Federico Favali --Tropical generalized interval systems /Giovanni Albini, Marco Paolo Bernardi --Shall we (math and) dance? --Maria Mannone, Luca Turchet --Special session: remanaging Riemann: mathematical music theory as "experimental philology"? --Decontextualizing contextual inversion /Jason Yust --From Schritte and Wechsel to Coxeter groups /Markus Schmidmeier --Exploring the syntonic side of major-minor tonality /Thomas Noll, David Clampitt --Embedded structural modes: unifying scale degrees and harmonic functions /Thomas Noll, Karst De Jong --Non-contextual JQZ transformations /Franck Jedrzejewski --The hierarchy of Rameau groups /Franck Jedrzejewski --Distant neighbors and interscalar contiguities /Daniel Harasim, Thomas Noll, Martin Rohrmeier --Constraint-based systems of triads and seventh chords, and parsimonious voice-leading /Matt Klassen --Octave division --Distributional analysis of n-dimensional feature space for 7-note scales in 22-TET /Gareth M. Hearne, Andrew J. Milne, Roger T. Dean --Filtration of pitch-class sets complexes /Louis Bigo, Moreno Andreatta --Computer-based approaches to composition and score structuring --Synesthesizer: physical modelling and machine learning for a color-based synthesizer in virtual reality /Giovanni Santini --Mercury ® : a software based on fuzzy clustering for computer-assisted composition /Brian Martínez-Rodríguez, Vicente Liern --A parse-based framework for coupled rhythm quantization and score structuring /Francesco Foscarin, Florent Jacquemard, Philippe Rigaux, Masahiko Sakai --Reinterpreting and extending Anatol Vieru's periodic sequences through the cellular automata formalisms /Paul Lanthier, Corentin Guichaoua, Moreno Andreatta --Models for music cognition and beat tracking --Surprisal, liking, and musical affect /Noah R. Fram --Autocorrelation of pitch-event vectors in meter finding /Christopher Wm. White --The envelopes of consonant intervals and chords in just intonation and equal temperament /Luis Nuño --Maximally even tilings /Jeremy Kastine --Short papers --Distributed vector representations of folksong motifs /Aitor Arronte Alvarez, Francisco Gómez-Martin --Visualizing temperaments: squaring the circle? --Gilles Baroin, André Calvet --Music corpus analysis using unwords /Darrell Conklin --Maths, computation and flamenco: overview and challenges /José-Miguel Díaz-Báñez, Nadine Kroher --Formalization of voice-leadings and the Nabla algorithm /Isaac del Pozo, Francisco Gómez --Computational music therapy /Billie Sandak, Avi Mazor, Amichay Asis, Avi Gilboa, David Harel --Special session on the pedagogy of mathematical music theory --Insiders' choice: studying pitch class sets through their discrete Fourier transformations /Thomas Noll --Have fun with math and music! --Maria Mannone --Teaching music with mathematics: a pilot study /Andrew J. Milne, Andrea M. Calilhanna --Integrated music and math projects in secondary education /Miguel R. Wilhelmi, Mariana Montiel --"Concerférences": of music and maths, for the audience's delight /Emmanuel Amiot.
This book constitutes the thoroughly refereed proceedings of the 7th International Conference on Mathematics and Computation in Music, MCM 2019, held in Madrid, Spain, in June 2019. The 22 full papers and 10 short papers presented were carefully reviewed and selected from 48 submissions. The papers feature research that combines mathematics or computation with music theory, music analysis, composition, and performance. They are organized in topical sections on algebraic and other abstract mathematical approaches to understanding musical objects; remanaging Riemann: mathematical music theory as "experimental philosophy"?; octave division; computer-based approaches to composition and score structuring; models for music cognition and beat tracking; pedagogy of mathematical music theory
