Nonlinear Systems, Vol. 2 : Nonlinear Phenomena in Biology, Optics and Condensed Matter
Part 1 – Biology -- Protein Folding: from Anfinsen to Levinthal -- Patterning dynamics in the fly ocellar complex -- On the role of oscillations and phases in neural communication -- Part 2 - Optics and Bose-Einstein Condensates -- Nonlinear Raman scattering techniques -- Vortex solitons in two-dimensional spin-orbit-coupled bosonic condensates: the general model -- Electromagnetic solitary waves collisions on graphene superlattices -- Aspects of cosmological Bose-Einstein condensates and physical analogues -- Stable nonlinear vortices in self-focusing Kerr media with nonlinear absorption -- Spatial solitons in nonlinear photonic crystal fibers -- Part 3 - Crystals, Metamaterials and Other Condensed Matter -- Kinks in lattices -- Discrete breathers in crystals: energy localization and transport -- Spatiotemporal intermittency in a surface reaction model -- Transmission of quasiparticle excitations through nonlinear meta-interface between two media -- Nonlinear localized modes in electric lattices -- Transport properties of quodons -- Kinks: theory and experiments -- Peculiarity of propagating self-sustained annealing of radiation-induced interstitial loops -- Embedded solitons and their application to the Josephson effect.
This book presents an overview of the most recent advances in nonlinear science. It provides a unified view of nonlinear properties in many different systems and highlights many  new developments. While volume 1 concentrates on mathematical theory and computational techniques and challenges, which are essential for the study of nonlinear science, this second volume deals with nonlinear excitations in several fields. These excitations can be localized and transport energy and matter in the form of breathers, solitons, kinks or quodons with very different characteristics, which are discussed in the book. They can also transport electric charge, in which case they are known as polarobreathers or solectrons. Nonlinear excitations can influence function and structure in biology, as for example, protein folding. In crystals and other condensed matter, they can modify transport properties, reaction kinetics and interact with defects. There are also engineering applications in electric lattices, Josephson junction arrays, waveguide arrays, photonic crystals and optical fibers. Nonlinear excitations are inherent to Bose-Einstein Condensates, constituting an excellent benchmark for testing their properties and providing a pathway for future discoveries in fundamental physics. .
