Next Generation Information Technologies and Systems : 6th International Conference, NGITS 2006, Kebbutz Sehfayim, Israel, July 4-6, 2006, Proceedings
Information technology is a rapidly changing field in which researchers and developers must continuously set their vision on the next generation of technologies and the systems that they enable. Suitably, Next-Generation Information Technologies and Systems (NGITS) is an ongoing series of workshops that provides a forum for presenting and discussing the latest advances in information technology. NGITS took are international events held in Israel; previous workshops took place in 1993, 1995, 1997, 1999 and 2002. The call for papers for the 2006 workshop was answered by 138 papers on a very diverse range of subjects, thus presenting a considerable challenge to the Program Committee. Each of these papers received professional reviewing from at least three experts, and eventually 32 papers (less than 25%) were selected for presentation at the workshop and inclusion in these proceedings. Of these, 28 are full-length papers and 4 are short papers. In addition, several research works were selected to display “poster” presentations, and a number of research projects exhibited demonstrations. Finally, the workshop featured three keynote lectures by notable experts. The selected papers may be classified roughly in ten broad areas: ? Information systems development ? Distributed systems ? Semi-structured data ? Data mining and agent-oriented computing ? User-oriented design ? Frameworks, models and taxonomies ? Simulation and incremental computing ? Information integration ? Security and privacy ? Next-generation applications This event is the culmination of efforts by many talented and dedicated individuals.
Full Papers -- Efficiently Updating Cost Repository Values for Query Optimization on Web Data Sources in a Mediator/Wrapper Environment -- TupleRank: Ranking Discovered Content in Virtual Databases -- Next-Generations Applications -- Analysis of Queries Reaching SHIL on the Web – An Information System Providing Citizen Information -- On Mediated Search of the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum Data -- A Repository of Services for the Government to Businesses Relationship -- Information Systems Development -- Towards Automatic Integration of Persistency Requirements in Enterprise-Systems – The Persistent-to-Persistent Patterns -- Consistency of UML Class Diagrams with Hierarchy Constraints -- A Framework-Based Design for Supporting Availability of Layered Distributed Applications -- Security and Privacy -- Web Application Security Gateway with Java Non-blocking IO -- Microaggregation for Database and Location Privacy -- Efficient Caching Strategies for Gnutella-Like Systems to Achieve Anonymity in Unstructured P2P File Sharing -- Semi-structured Data -- Conjunctive Queries over DAGs -- Incrementally Computing Ordered Answers of Acyclic Conjunctive Queries -- Count-Constraints for Generating XML -- Frameworks, Models and Taxonomies -- A Data Model for Music Information Retrieval -- A Taxonomy and Representation of Sources of Uncertainty in Active Systems -- Analyzing Object-Oriented Design Patterns from an Object-Process Viewpoint -- Simulation and Incremental Computing -- Modeling and Simulation of Grid Information Service -- Simulations of Distributed Service-Based Content Adaptation for Network Optimization -- Distributed Systems -- Second Order Snapshot-Log Relations: Supporting Multi-directional Database Replication Using Asynchronous Snapshot Replication -- The Replica Management for Wide-Area Distributed Computing Environments -- Developing Parallel Cell-Based Filtering Scheme Under Shared-Nothing Cluster-Based Architecture -- User Oriented Design -- How Deep Should It Be? On the Optimality of Hierarchical Architectures -- A Spreadsheet Client for Web Applications -- Dynamic Construction of User Defined Virtual Cubes -- Data Mining and Agent-Oriented Computing -- Automatic Discovery of Regular Expression Patterns Representing Negated Findings in Medical Narrative Reports -- A Hybrid Method for Speeding SVM Training -- Design of Service Management System in OSGi Based Ubiquitous Computing Environment -- Short Papers -- Creating Consistent Diagnoses List for Developmental Disorders Using UMLS -- Enhancing Domain Engineering with Aspect-Orientation -- An Agent-Oriented Approach to Semantic Web Services -- Biometrics Authenticated Key Agreement Scheme -- Posters and Demonstrations -- The Third Query Paradigm -- ?-xSynopses – a System for Run-Time Management of XML Synopses -- LTS: The List-Traversal Synopses System -- The Promise and Challenge of Multidimensional Visualization -- : Bridging the Gap Between Web Services and the Semantic Web -- – A Scalable and Efficient Framework for Online Data Delivery -- Invited Talks -- Next Generation Enterprise IT Systems -- The Future of Web Search: From Information Retrieval to Information Supply -- Is There Life After the Internet?.
