Strongly coupled field theories for condensed matter and quantum information theory : proceedings, International Institute of Physics, Natal, Rn, Brazil, 2-21 August 2015
This book presents a selection of advanced lectures from leading researchers, providing recent theoretical results on strongly coupled quantum field theories. It also analyzes their use for describing new quantum states, which are physically realizable in condensed matter, cold-atomic systems, as well as artificial materials. It particularly focuses on the engineering of these states in quantum devices and novel materials useful for quantum information processing. The book offers graduate students and young researchers in the field of modern condensed matter theory an updated review of the most relevant theoretical methods used in strongly coupled field theory and string theory. It also provides the tools for understanding their relevance in describing the emergence of new quantum states in a variety of physical settings. Specifically, this proceedings book summarizes new and previously unrelated developments in modern condensed matter physics, in particular: the interface of condensed matter theory and quantum information theory; the interface of condensed matter physics and the mathematics emerging from the classification of the topological phases of matter, such as topological insulators and topological superconductors; and the simulation of condensed matter systems with cold atoms in optical lattices.
Chapter 1 - Effective Field Theories for Topological States of Matter (Thors Hans Hansson and Thomas Klein Kvorning).-Chapter 2 - Entanglement Measures in Conformal Field Theories and ADS/CFT (Erik Tonni) -- Chapter 3 - Entanglement Content of Many Body States via Concurrence, Negativity & Schmidt Gap (Sougato Bose, Abolfazl Bayat, Henrik Johannesson and Pasquale Sodano) -- Chapter 4 - Generalized Entanglement Entropy in New Spin Chains (Fumihiko Sugino e Vladimir Korepin) -- Chapter 5 - Topological Kondo Effect (Francesco Buccheri and Reinhold Egger) -- Chapter 6 - Holographyc Kondo Models (Johanna Erdmenger) -- Chapter 7 - Local Probe of the Kondo Length at a Y-junction of Critical Quantum Ising Chains (Domenico Giuliano and Pasquale Sodano) -- Chapter 8 - Gauge Theories with Ultracold Atoms (Joao C. Pinto Barros, Michele Burrello and Andrea Trombettoni) -- Chapter 9 - The Remarkable BEC Dimer (David K. Campbell) -- Chapter 10 - Quantized Vortex Lines in BECs with a Generalized Equation of State (Tommaso Macrì) -- Chapter 11 - Topological View on Entanglement and Complexity (Dmitry Melnikov) -- Chapter 12 - Finite Size Effects in Topological Quantum Phase Transitions (Mucio A. Continentino, Sabrina Rufo and Griffith M. Rufo) -- Chapter 13 - From Quantum Spin Chains to Chiral Spin Liquids (Rodrigo G. Pereira) -- Chapter 14 - Majorana Zero-Energy Modes in a Magnetic Field-Free Quantum Wire (Mariana Malard) Chapter 15 - From Graphene to Quantum Computation: An Expedition to the Dirac Sea (Eduardo C. Marino) -- Chapter 16 - Quantum Dynamics from a Domain Wall Initial State, in Real and Imaginary Time (Jacopo Viti) -- Chapter 17 - Quantum Thermodynamics at Impurity Quantum Phase Transitions (Abolfazl Bayat et al.) -- Chapter 18 - Information Delocalization in Many Body Systems: from MBL phases to Black Holes (Javier M. Magan and Simone Paganelli) -- Chapter 19 - Breaking the Area Law: the Rainbow State (Giovanni Ramirez, Javier Rodriguez-Laguna and German Sierra).
