Mathematical modelling, applied analysis and computation : ICMMAAC 2018, Jaipur, India, July 6-8
This book contains original research papers presented at the International Conference on Mathematical Modelling, Applied Analysis and Computation, held at JECRC University, Jaipur, India, on 6-8 July 2018. Organized into 20 chapters, the book focuses on theoretical and applied aspects of various types of mathematical modelling such as equations of various types, fuzzy mathematical models, automata, Petri nets and bond graphs for systems of dynamic nature and the usage of numerical techniques in handling modern problems of science, engineering and finance. It covers the applications of mathematical modelling in physics, chemistry, biology, mechanical engineering, civil engineering, computer science, social science and finance. A wide variety of dynamical systems like deterministic, stochastic, continuous, discrete or hybrid, with respect to time, are discussed in the book. It provides the mathematical modelling of various problems arising in science and engineering, and also new efficient numerical approaches for solving linear and nonlinear problems and rigorous mathematical theories, which can be used to analyze a different kind of mathematical models. The conference was aimed at fostering cooperation among students and researchers in areas of applied analysis, engineering and computation with the deliberations to inculcate new research ideas in their relevant fields. This volume will provide a comprehensive introduction to recent theories and applications of mathematical modelling and numerical simulation, which will be a valuable resource for graduate students and researchers of mathematical modelling and industrial mathematics
I. Cho, Certain Banach-Space operators acting on the semicircular elements induced by orthogonal projections -- Feng Qi, Explicit expressions related to degenerate Cauchy numbers and their generating function -- S. K. Paikray, Statistical deferred riesz summability mean and associated approximation theorems for trigonometric functions -- G. Uysal, On pointwise convergence of a family of nonlinear integral operators -- M. Malik, Existence and Ulam's type Stability of Integro Differential Equation with Non-instantaneous Impulses and Periodic Boundary Condition -- J. C. Prajapati, Introduction to Class of Uniformly Fractional Differentiable Functions -- S.Abbas, Asymptotically almost automorphic solution for neutral functional integro evolution equations on time scales -- M. Jain, An Integral Relation associated with a General Class of Polynomials and the Aleph Function -- J.F. Gomez-Aguilar, On the new fractional operator and application to nonlinear Bloch system -- S.D. Purohit, Fractional order integration and certain integrals of generalized multiindex Bessel function -- A. Prakash, Fractional variational iteration method for time fractional fourth-order Diffusion-Wave equation -- R. K. Bairwa, Analytical approach to fractional Navier-Stokes equations by Iterative Laplace Transform method -- S. Jain, Biological model of dengue spread with non-markovian properties -- A. Razaa, Approximate Solution of Higher Order Two Point Boundary Value Problems Using Uniform Haar Wavelet Collocation -- V. D. Joshi, Solving multi-objective fractional transportation problem -- H. M. Baskonus, On the Dark and Bright Solitons to the Negative-Order Breaking Soliton Model with (2+1)-dimensional -- K. M. Saad, A reliable analytical algorithm for cubic isothermal auto-catalytic chemical system -- Y. Singh, Numerical Study of Effects of Adrenal Hormones on Lymphocytes -- E. Bonyah, Mathematical Modelling of Poor Nutrition in the Human Life Cycle -- Z. Hammouch, Impact of homogeneous heterogeneous reaction on stagnation point flow of Walters' B fluid with Newtonian heating under the statistical paradigm
