Nanostructured Thin Films and Nanodispersion Strengthened Coatings
Hard and Tribological Coatings -- Smart Nanocomposite Coatings with Chameleon Surface Adaptation in Tribological Applications -- Materials Science of Wear-Protective Nanostructured Thin Films -- Recent Progress in Superdhard Nanocomposites: Preparation, Properties and Industrial Applications -- Nanostructured Hard Coatings - From Nanocomposites to Nanomultilayers -- Hard Nanocomposite Films Prepared by Reactive Magnetron Sputtering -- Thermal Stability and Self-Arrangement of Nanocrystalline Hard Coatings -- Multilayer Hard Coatings for Machinery Needs -- Nanostructured Carbon Materials in Thin Film Technology -- Recent Progress in the Development of Plasma Deposition Equipment -- Nanocomposite Coating Systems Tailored for Specific Engineering Applications -- Hybrid Plasma Deposition Methods for Synthesis of Nanostructured Materials -- Recent Developments on Ionized Physical Vapour Deposition: Concepts, Determination of the Ionisation Efficiency and Improvement of Deposited Films -- Nucleation of Diamond from Vapor Phase and Synthesis of Nanostructured Diamond Films -- Nanostructured and Nanolayered Thin Films Deposited by Ion-plasma Methods -- Plasma- and Beam-Assisted Deposition Methods -- Film Characterization and Control of Structure and Properties -- Multicomponent Nanostructured Thin Films. Deposition, Characterization, Testing and Application -- Stress Development and Relaxation in Nanostructured Films Deposited by Cathodic Vacuum Arc -- Synthesis and Properties of TiB2/TiN and TiB2/B4C Films -- Control of Structure and Properties of Coatings Deposited by Pulsed Magnetron Sputtering -- Ion Implanted Nanolayers in Alloys and Ceramic Coatings for Improved Resistance to High-Temperature Corrosion -- Quantum Dots in Si-Ge Structures Synthesized by Ge Ion Implantation Into Si Wafers -- CVD Diamond Films on Surfaces with Intricate Shape -- Films of Soft-Magnetic Fe-Based Nanocrystalline Alloys for High-Density Magnetic Storage Application -- Nanopowders and Nanoparticles in Surface Engineering Technologies -- Prospects of Nanodispersive Powder Applications in Surface Engineering Technologies -- Metal Matrix Composites Produced by Electroplating. A Review on Technology and Applications -- Strengthening of Heat-Insulating Surfaces -- Nanopowders - An Approach to Enhanced Surface Coatings -- Physicochemical Properties of Nano-Sized Synthetic Diamond and its Dispersion-Strengthening Influence on Different Media -- Single Crystal SBN:Yb / Opal Matrix (SiO2):Er Composite as a Nanophotonic Structure -- Biocompatible Thin Films -- Micro- and Nano-Structured Thin Films for Biological Interfaces -- Applications of Ion-Assisted Deposition to Surface Modification on the Micro- and Nano-Scale -- Biomedical Properties of Nanostractured Surfaces Formed by Ion-Plasma Methods.
This volume contains proceedings of the NATO-Russia Advanced Research Workshop on Nanostructured Thin Films and Nanodispersion Strengthened Coatings (December, 2003, Moscow). During this Workshop leading researchers from twelve countries had presented and discussed most recent developments in the fields of plasma physics and surface engineering related to the preparation and applications of nanostructured thin films and nanodispersion strengthened coatings. These presentations are encompassed in 31 individual chapters. The chapters are assembled in five parts in according to the workshop sessions. Part I is a compilation of chapters on hard and tribological coatings. The recent advances in this area are significant in that it is now possible to engineer strong, hard, and tough coatings that can operate at temperatures higher than 1200 ?C and exhibit ‘smart’, adaptive characteristics. These coatings are based on an amorphous matrix, e. g. nitrides, carbides, borides, or carbon, in which there is a controlled nucleation and growth of ultra hard nanoparticles of crystalline carbides, nitrides, borides and oxides. The critical feature is the control of both the particle size, i. e. , less than 10 nm, and interpartical spacing of a few nanometers. The ‘smart’ or adaptive characteristic is engineered into the nanostructures using similar sized (less than 10 nm) particles of metallic chalcogenidese, ductile metals, or glass forming elements to provide high lubricity and chemical adaptation at the environment change, e. g. , high and low humidities and temperatures.
