Aviation and climate change : economic perspectives on greenhouse gas reduction policies
Aviation emissions and climate impacts / Volker Grewe -- Renewable fuels for aviation / Arne Roth -- Air transport and the challenge of climate change -- how aviation climate change policies work / Frank Fichert, Peter Forsyth and Hans-Martin Niemeier -- ETSs and aviation: implementation of schemes in the EU and other countries / Peter Morrell -- International action and the role of ICAO / Karlheinz Haag -- ICAO's new CORSIA scheme at a glance: a milestone towards greener aviation? / Sven Maertens, Wolfgang Grimme and Janina Scheelhaase -- Voluntary carbon offset schemes in the airline industry: why did they fail? / Andreas Knorr and Alexander Eisenkopf -- Roadmap to decarbonising aviation / Bill Hemmings, Andrew Murphy, Thomas Earl, Carlos Calvo Ambel, Lucy Gilliam, Jori Sihvonen and Laura Buffet -- Intermodal dimension of climate change policy / Werner Rothengatter -- Scenarios for future policies: potential costs and competitive impacts of different market-based measures for the limitation of all climate relevant species from aviation / Janina D. Scheelhaase, Katrin Dahlmann, Martin Jung, Hermann Keimel, Hendrik Niesse, Robert Sausen, Martin Schaefer and Florian Wolters -- Inclusion of international aviation emissions under the Paris Agreement's Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) / Andrew Murphy -- Review and further directions / Peter Forsyth.
"This book analyses the political, economic and managerial challenges for policy makers and the air transport industry as they face climate change. Based on an overview of the scientific background and technological options for emissions reduction, Climate Change and the Aviation Industry provides an in-depth assessment of environmental regulation and management. It provides an up-to-the-minute analysis of the effects of aviation on climate change, and an economic analysis of policies to reduce or eliminate greenhouse gas emissions. The main emphasis of the book is on the economic mechanisms used to lessen emissions - carbon taxes, emissions trading schemes and offset schemes. It pays particular attention to the ways these policies work, and to the interaction between them - for instance, the interaction between taxes and emissions trading schemes. One feature of the book is that it analyses the Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation (CORSIA) which has been developed by ICAO for international aviation, and which is due to commence operation shortly. The advantages and disadvantages of this controversial scheme are discussed. This book will be of interest to researchers in diverse areas (economics, political science, engineering, natural sciences), to air transport policy makers, and to managers in the aviation industry"--
