Intelligent Solutions for Cities and Mobility of the Future
This book contains an abundance of numerical analyses based on significant data sets, illustrating the close affiliation between intelligent solutions and future mobility. Which of the prediction models should be applied to improve road safety? How to solve selected issues with assessment of urban roundabouts? What is the future of shared mobility services? How to use spatial data in planning processes related to electromobility implementation? What is the right approach to the problem of road and rail traffic processes? This book provides you with answers to these and many other questions. With regard to the research results discussed and the selected solutions applied, the book primarily addresses the needs of three target groups: • Scientists and researchers (ITS field) • Local authorities (responsible for the transport systems at the urban and regional level) • Representatives of business (traffic strategy management) and industry (manufacturers of ITS components). The book gathers selected papers presented at the 17th “Transport Systems. Theory and Practice” Scientific and Technical Conference organised by the Department of Transport Systems, Traffic Engineering and Logistics at the Faculty of Transport and Aviation Engineering of the Silesian University of Technology. The conference was held on 20–21 September 2021 in Katowice (Poland). More details are available at www.TSTP.polsl.pl.
Part 1. Usefulness of New Forms of Mobility -- Information and Usage Asymmetry of Shared Mobility Services Among Different Generations -- Measuring and Forecasting of Passengers Modal Split through Road Accidents Statistical Data -- Environmental Performance Assessment of Urban Roundabouts -- Part 2. Use of ITS Data in Planning and Organization of Traffic Flows -- Geo-information Input Data for the Planning Process of Conventional Fleet Conversion Towards a 100% Electric Bus Fleet -- Information Interaction in Seaports and Port Stations -- The Threats Related to Parking Electric Vehicle in Underground Car Parks -- Part 3. Intelligent and Integrated Transport Systems -- Modeling Multitasking Onboard of Privately-used Autonomous Vehicle and Public Transport -- Evolution of Probabilistic Characteristics in the Train Traffic Process -- Video-Based Background/Foreground Estimation for Vehicle Detection -- Part 4. Improving the Efficiency of Ecological Friendly Solutions in Transport Systems -- The Areas of Impact of The Circular Economy in Passenger Air Transport -- Measures to Increase the Extra-Transport Effectiveness -- The Impact of COVID-19 on Public Transport in Polish Cities on the example of Wroclaw.
