Thinking, drawing, modelling : GEOMETRIAS 2017, Coimbra, Portugal, June 16–18
This book presents a selection of papers from the International Conference Geometrias’17, which was hosted by the Department of Architecture at the University of Coimbra from 16 to 18 June 2017. The Geometrias conferences, organized by Aproged (the Portuguese Geometry and Drawing Teachers’ Association), foster debate and exchange on practical and theoretical research in mathematics, architecture, the arts, engineering, and related fields. Geometrias’17, with the leitmotif “Thinking, Drawing, Modelling”, brought together a group of recognized experts to discuss the importance of geometric literacy and the science of representation for the development of scientific and technological research and professional practices. The 12 peer-reviewed papers gathered here show how geometry, drawing, stereotomy, and the science of representation are still at the core of every act leading to the conception and materialization of form, and highlight their continuing relevance for scholars and professionals in the fields of architecture, engineering, and applied mathematics.
M. Barberio, Prototyping Stereotomic Assemblies: Stone Polysphere -- L. Cabezas, Geometry and Art -- A. Castro, Geometry and Digital Technologies in Herzog & De Meuron Architecture -- M. Colella, The Dome as Minimal Housing Unit: Ghibli and D-Home Prototypes -- S. Genin, The Vaults of Arronches Nossa Senhora da Assunção and Misericordia Churches. Geometric and Constructive Comparison with the Nave and Refectory Vaults of Jerónimos Monastery -- C. Leopold, Perspective Transformations for Architectural Design -- J. Maia and V. Murtinho, Ordered Creativity: The Sense of Proportion in the Architecture of João Álvaro Rocha -- A. Martín-Pastor and A. Lopez Martínez, Developable Ruled Surfaces from a Cylindrical Helix and their Application as an Architectural Surface -- H. Müller, C. Nething, A. Schalk, D. Kovaleva, O. Gericke and W. Sobek, Porous Spatial Concrete Structures Generated Using Frozen Sand Formwork -- J. Pedro Sousa, Calculated Geometries. From Manual to Robotic Experiments in Architectural -- M. Sroka-Bizoń, How to Construct Red Sea? -- J. Tofil, How to Improve the Education of Engineers Visualization of String Construction Bridges. .
