Reconstructions: architecture and Blackness in America
"The Museum of Modern Art announces the fourth installment of the Issues in Contemporary Architecture series, Reconstructions: Architecture and Blackness in America, an investigation into the intersections of architecture, Blackness and anti-Black racism in the American context. On view from February 20 through May 31, 2021, the exhibition and accompanying publication will examine contemporary architecture in the context of how systemic racism has fostered violent histories of discrimination and injustice in the United States. Such conditions have structured and continue to inform the built environment of American cities through public policies, municipal planning, and architecture, with specific repercussions for African American and African diaspora communities. Projects will explore how people have mobilized Black cultural spaces, forms, and practices as sites of imagination, liberation, resistance, and refusal."--City Life Org website (viewed on February 18, 2021)
Foreword / Glenn D. Lowry -- Preface / Robin D. G. Kelley -- Introduction / Sean Anderson and Mabel O. Wilson -- Refusal. Black gathering: An assembly in three parts / Christina Sharpe -- Immeasurability (Atlanta, GA) / Emanuel Admassu -- Visible by design / Michelle Joan Wilkinson -- The refusal of space (Nashville, TN) / Mario Gooden -- Moving beyond repair: Constructing a revisionist history of architectural modernity at MoMA / Charles L. Davis II -- Liberation. Designing for social justice / Roberta Washington -- Fabricating networks: Transmissions and receptions from Pittsburgh's Hill district (Pittsburgh, PA) / Felecia Davis -- Reconstruction's breadth / Adrienne Brown -- Black towers / Black power (Oakland, CA) / Walter J. Hood -- At the YMCA swimming pool / Arièle Dionne-Krosnick -- Supply-side criminomics / Carla Shedd -- On exactitude in science (Watts) / David Hartt -- Imagination. Time, memory, and living in shotgun houses in the south of the South City of New Orleans / Tonya M. Foster -- A spectrum of Blackness: The search for sedimentation in Miami, FL / Germane Barnes -- Shack stories / Aruna D'Souza -- R:R (New Orleans, LA) / V. Mitch McEwen -- Entanglements of slavery, segregation, and mass incarceration in the United States / Dianne Harris -- Care. We had a garden / Audry Petty -- We outchea: HIp-hop fabrications and public space (Syracuse, NY) / Sekou Cooke -- Housing as insertion point for creative urban alchemy / Ifeoma Ebo -- Environmental racism and its afterlives in the prison system / David Naguib Pellow -- Directions to Black space (after Mutabaruka) (Kinloch, MO) / Amanda Williams -- Knowledge. A refusal of border / Jennifer Newsom -- black city: the los angeles edition (Los Angeles, CA) / J. Yolande Daniels -- Reconstructing difference: Design for all of the above / Justin Garrett Moore -- The frozen neighborhoods (Brooklyn, NY) / Olalekan Jeyifous -- Toward an architecture race theory / Milton S. F. Curry -- Manifesting statement: the Black Reconstruction Collective -- Project teams -- Acknowledgments -- Trustees of The Museum of Modern Art.
"Reconstructions: Architecture and Blackness in America is an urgent call for architects to accept the challenge of reconceiving and reconstructing our built environment rather than continue giving shape to buildings, infrastructure and urban plans that have, for generations, embodied and sustained anti-Black racism in the United States. The architects, designers, artists and writers who were invited to contribute to this book--and to the exhibition at the Museum of Modern Art for which it serves as a "field guide"--reimagine the legacies of race-based dispossession in 10 American cities (Atlanta; Brooklyn, New York; Kinloch, Missouri; Los Angeles; Miami; Nashville; New Orleans; Oakland; Pittsburgh; and Syracuse) and celebrate the ways individuals and communities across the country have mobilized Black cultural spaces, forms and practices as sites of imagination, liberation, resistance, care and refusal. A broad range of essays by the curators and prominent scholars from diverse fields, as well as a portfolio of new photographs by the artist David Hartt, complement this volume's richly illustrated presentations of the architectural projects at the heart of MoMA's groundbreaking exhibition."--Back cover
