Renewable energy sources : engineering, rechnology, innovation : ICORES 2018
1.Analysis of the possibilities of using a hybrid heating system in the process of anaerobic biomass decomposition in mesophilic conditions -- 2.Possibilities of using biomass from nutshells for energy purposes.-3.Study of PAR Intensity Distribution in Cylindrical Photobioreactors -- 4.Drying kinetics of selected waste biomass from the food industry -- 5.Process of Gradual Dysfunction of a Diesel Engine Caused by Formation of PM Deposits of FAME Origin.-6. Selective Catalytic Dehydration of Bioethanol.-7. Technical Options of Pruned Biomass Harvesting in the Apple Orchards Applying Baling Technology and Its Conversion to Energy -- 8.Analysis of physical properties of pellet produced from different types of dendromass.-9. Efficiency of industrial drying of apple pomace
This volume presents peer-reviewed papers related the oral and poster presentations during the 5th International Conference on Renewable Energy Sources, which was held from June 20 to 22, 2018 in Krynica, Poland. The scope of the conference included a wide range of topics in renewable energy technology, with a major focus on biomass, solar energy and geothermal energy, but also extending to heat pumps, fuel cells, wind energy, energy storage, and the modelling and optimization of renewable energy systems. This edition of the conference had a special focus on the role of renewable energy in reduction the air pollution in the Eastern Europe region. Traditionally this conference is a unique occasion for gathering Polish and international researchers’ perspectives on renewable energy sources, and furthermore of balancing them against governmental policy considerations. Accordingly, the conference offered also panels to discuss best practices and solutions with local entrepreneurs and federal government bodies. The meeting attracts not only scientist but also industry representatives as well as local and federal government members. This edition of the conference was organized by the University of Agriculture in Krakow in cooperation with AGH University of Science and Technology (Krakow), University of Žilina, Silesian University of Technology, International Commission of Agricultural and Biosystems Engineering (CIGR) and Polish Society of Agricultural Engineering. Honorary auspices were given by the Ministry of Science and Higher Education Republic of Poland, Rector of the University of Agriculture in Krakow and Rector of the AGH University of Science and Technology
