Transport developments and innovations in an evolving world : [outcome of one of the NECTAR (Network on European Communications and Transport Activity Research) activities, viz. a research conference held at Espoo (Helsinki) in May 2001]
The book is describing technological developments as well as urban futures in the information age where the development of ICT sets the pace and options. Despite this dynamic development, the book describes how stabile daily travelling still is and highlights the achievable impacts and acceptability of transport policy measures. Freight transport is discussed from the viewpoint of industry. In addition, some innovative approaches in rearranging current freight transport networks are given. Transport future is mapped from various viewpoints. Light-rail is presented as a possible backbone of urban regions. Methods to evaluate the societal consensus related to the spatial development - linked to transport infrastructures - are described. Methods to assess spatial planning policies are presented as well as options for benchmarking local public transport companies. TOC:Introduction.-PART A:TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENTS IN TRANSPORT: E.Feitelson,I.Salomon,The Political Economy of Transport Innovations.-M.Dijst, ICTs and Accessibility.-H.van Ham,B.Kuipers,E-commerce and the Container Shipping Industry.- M.van Geenhuizen,P.Nijkamp,In Search of Urban Futures in the E- economy.-PART B:NEW FORMS OF TRAVEL BEHAVIOUR:J.van Exel,P.Rietveld,Inertia of Travel Behaviour.-M.Lanzendorf,The Same Procedure as last Weekend.-J.Kurri,Parking Policy Measures and their Effects on Shopping and Work Trips.-J.Schade,Acceptability of Marginal Cost Based Pricing in Urban Transport.-PART C:FREIGHT TRANSPORT INNOVATIONS:L.G. Hansen,Transport and Logistics as Network Competencies in a Localised Industrial Cluster.- C.Macharis,A Methodology to Evaluate Potential Location of Intermodal Barge Terminals.-Y.Bontekoning,J.J.Trip,Rail-rail Hub- terminals as Alternative for Shunting.-H.Priemus,Light Rail.- Y.Shiftan,S.Kaplan,S.Hakkert,Scenario Building for the Future of the Tel Aviv Metropolitan Area and its Transportation System Using the Delphi Method.-A.L'Hostis,C.Decoupigny,Assessing Spatial Planning Policy with Accessibility Indicators.- J.Nellthorp,European Innovations in Multi-modal Assessment
