Nuclear fusion research : understanding plasma-surface interactions ; [on October 28 - 31, 2002, a technical meeting of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) was held at the Institut für Plasmaphysik, Forschungszentrum Jülich, Germany ; this was the fourth in a series of such meetings ...]
It became clear in the early days of fusion research that the effects of the containment vessel (erosion of "impurities") degrade the overall fusion plasma performance. Progress in controlled nuclear fusion research over the last decade has led to magnetically confined plasmas that, in turn, are sufficiently powerful to&nbsp;damage the vessel structures over its lifetime. This book reviews current understanding and concepts to deal with this remaining critical design issue for fusion reactors. It reviews both progress and open questions, largely in terms of available and sought-after plasma-surface interaction data and atomic/molecular data related to these "plasma edge" issues. TOC:1. Plasma Wall Interaction: Status and Data Needs.- 2. Modelling of Fusion Edge Plasmas: A&M Data Issues.- 3. Energy Deposition from ELMs in Fusion Devices.- 4. Molecular Diagnostics of Cold Edge Plasmas.- 5. Divertor Spectroscopy with Molecular Transport.- 6. High-Temperature Plasma Edge Diagnostics.- 7. X-ray Spectroscopy of High n Transitions of He- and Ne-like Ions in Alcator C-Mod Plasmas.- 8. High-Temperature Plasmas Diagnostics by X-ray Spectroscopy in the Low Density Limit.- 9. Review and Status of Physical Sputtering and Chemical Erosion of Plasma Facing Mterials.- 10. Hydrogen Retention in and Relese from Carbon Materials.- 11. Interaction of Low-Energy Ions and Hydrocarbon Radical with&nbsp;Carbon Surfaces.- Tritium Inventory in the Materials of the ITER Plasma-Facing Components.- 13. Plasma-Material Interaction for Mixed Plasma-Facing Materials inFusion Reactors Studied in TEXTOR-94.- 14. Beryllium and Liquid Metals as Plasma-Facing Materials.- 15. IAEA Databases and Database Establishment Programs.- 16. NIFS DATABASE and Cooperations with IAEA DCN.- 17. The NIST Atomic Structure Databases.- 18. The Atomic Data and Analysis Structure.- 19. Collision Processes of Atomic and Molecular Hydrogen in Fusion Plasmas: The Cross Section Data Status.- 20. Partial and Differential Electron Impact Ionization Cross Sections for Small Hydrocarbon Molecules
