The universe of general relativity
This volume from the Einstein Series is based largely on papers presented at the Sixth International Conference on the History of General Relativity, held in Amsterdam on June 26-29, 2002. These contributions from notable experts offer both new and historical insights on gravitation, general relativity, cosmology, unified field theory, and the history of science. Topics&nbsp;discussed include the prehistory of special relativity, early attempts at a relativistic theory of gravitation, the beginnings of general relativity, the problem of motion in the context of relativity, conservation laws, the axiomatization of relativity, classical and contemporary cosmology, gravitation and electromagnetism, quantum gravity, and relativity as seen through the eyes of the public and renowned relativists. Contributors include: K. Brading; G. Gale; H.F.M. Goenner; J. Goldberg; S. Katzir; D. Kennefick; H. Kragh; C. Lehner; U. Majer; J. Mattingly; E.T. Newman; J.D. Norton; J. Renn; R. Rynasiewicz; J.M. Sánchez-Ron; T. Sauer; C. Smeenk; J. Stachel; M. Wazeck; and D. Wünsch. TOC:Preface * Stachel: Fresnel's (Dragging) Coefficient as a Challenge to 19th Century Optics of Moving Bodies * Katzir: Poincaré's Relativistic Theory of Gravitation * Renn: Standing on the Shoulders of a Dwarf: General Relativity-A Triumph of Einstein and Grossman's Erroneous Entwurf Theory * Renn: Before the Riemann Tensor: The Emergence of Einstein's Double Strategy * Norton: A Conjecture on Einstein, the Independent Reality of Spacetime Coordinate Systems and the Disaster of 1913 * Lehner: Einstein and the Principle of General Relativity, 1916-1921 * Kennefick: Einstein and the Problem of Motion: A Small Clue * Brading: A Note on General Relativity, Energy Conservation, and Noether's Theorems * Rynasiewicz: Weyls vs. Reichenbach on Lichtgeometrie * Gale: Dingle and de Sitter Against the Metaphysicians, or Two Ways to Keep Modern Cosmology Physical * Kragh: George Gamow and the 'Factual Approach' to Relativistic Cosmology * Sánchez-Ron: George McVittie, The Uncompromising Empiricist * Smeenk: False Vacuum: Early Universe Cosmology and the Development of Inflation * Majer and Sauer: Hilbert's 'World Equations' and His Vision of a Unified Science * Wünsch: Einstein, Kaluza and the Fifth Dimension * Goenner: Large Unified Field Theory: Early History and Interplay between Mathematics and Physics * Mattingly: Is Quantum Gravity Necessary? * Wazeck: Einstein in the Daily Press: A Glimpse into the  ...
