Herbs: challenges in chemistry and biology : [developed from a symposium sponsored by the Division of Agricultural and Food Chemistry at the 227th National Meeting of the American Chemical Society, Anaheim, California, March 28 - April 1, 2004]
1. Botanical quality initiatives at the office of dietary supplements, National institutes of health -- 2. Current trends and future prospects of traditional Chinese medicines in the 21st century -- 3. Bioactive polyphenols from foods and dietary supplements : challenges and opportunities -- 4. Instrumental analysis of popular botanical products in the U.S. market -- 5. Challenges in assessing bioactive botanical ingredients in functional beverages -- 6. Bioactive natural products from Chinese tropical marine plants and invertebrates -- 7. Curcumin : potential health benefits, molecular mechanism of action, and its anticancer properties in vitro and in vivo -- 8. Need for analytical methods and fingerprinting : total quality control of phytomedicine Echinacea -- 9. Bioassay-guided isolation, identification, and quantification of the estrogen-like constituent from PC SPES -- 10. Intraspecific variation in quality control parameters, polyphenol profile, and antioxidant activity in wild populations of Lippia multiflora from Ghana -- 11. Protein tyrosine phosphatases 1B inhibitors from traditional Chinese medicine -- 12. Thioglucosidase-catalyzed hydrolysis of the major glucosinolate of Maca (Lepidium meyenii) to benzyl isothiocyanate : mini-review and simple quantitativeHPLC method -- 13. Studies on chemical constituents of jiaogulan (gynostemma pentaphyllum) -- 14. Chemical components of noni (morinda citrifolia L.) root -- 15. Characterization of chemical components of Ixeris denticulata -- 16. Bioavailability, metabolism, and pharmacokinetics of glycosides in Chinese herbs -- 17. Moringa, a novel plant rich in antioxidants, bioavailable iron, and nutrients -- 18. Stability and transformation of bioactive polyphenolic components of herbs in physiological pH -- 19. Bioavailability and synergistic effects of tea catechins as antioxidants in the human diet -- 20. Targeting inflammation using Asian herbs -- 21. Induction of apoptosis by Ligusticum chuanxiong in HSC-T6 stellate cells -- 22. Effect of combined use of isothiocyanate and black tea extract on dental caries -- 23. Cytotoxic properties of leaf essential oil and components from indigenous cinnamon (cinnamomum osmophloeum Kaneh) -- 24. Effect of black tea theaflavins on 12-0-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate-induced inflammation : expression of proinflammatory cytokines and arachidonic acid metabolism in mouse ear and colon carcinogenesis in min (apc+/-) mice -- 25. Shea butter : chemistry, quality, and new market potentials
