Advances in electronic ceramics II : a collection of papers presented at the 33rd International Conference on Advanced Ceramics and Composites, January 18 - 23, 2009, Daytona Beach, Florida ; [of the three symposia listed below: Symposium 6 Key Materials and Technologies for Efficient Direct Thermal-to-Electrical Conversion, symposium 11, Symposium on Advanced Dielectrics, Piezoelectric, Ferroelectric, and Multiferroic Materials, Focussed Session 2 Materials for Solid State Lighting]
Piezoelectric composite materials and structures / Andreas J. Schönecker -- Piezoelectricity in (K,Na)NbO₃ based ceramics / Cheol-Woo Ahn, Chee-Sung Park, Sahn Nahm and Shashank Priya -- Phase relationship and microwave dielectric properties in the vicinity of Ba(Zn₁/₃Ta₂/₃)O₃ / Hitoshi Ohsato, Eiichi Koga, Isao Kgomiya and Ken-ichi Kakimoto -- Magnetic properties of metal-ceramic composite core-shell structures synthesized using coprecipitation and hetero-coagulation / M. Karmarkar, R. Islam, C.-W. Ahn, J.T. Abiade, D. Kumar, D. Viehland and S. Priya -- Strong electric field tuning of magnetism in multiferroic heterostructures / Ming Liu, Jing Lou, Ogheneyunume Obi, David Reed, Carl Pettiford, Stephen Stoute and Nian X. Sun -- Mechanical strain and piezoelectric properties of PZT stacks related to semi-bipolar electric cyclic fatigue / Hong Wang, Hua-Tay Lin, Thomas A. Cooper and Andrew A. Wereszczak -- Intergranular fractal impedance analysis of microstructure and electrical properties of rare-earth doped BaTiO₃ / V. Mitic, V.B. Pavlovic, Lj. Kocic, V. Paunovic and D. Mancic -- Ca-doping and thermoelectric properties of CaxCoO₂ epitaxial films / Kenji Sugiura, Hiromichi Ohta, Kenji Nomura, Hideo Hosono and Kunihito Koumoto -- Thermoelectric generators / David Michael Rowe -- Chemical thermodynamic in thermoelectric materials / Jean Claude Tedenac, R.M. Marin-Ayral, Didier Ravot and F. Gascoin -- Strength of bismuth telluride / A.A. Wereszczak, T.P. Kirkland, O.M. Jadaan and H. Wang -- Sulfoselenide phosphors and nanophosphors for solid-state lighting / H. Menkara, T.R. Morris II, R.A. Gilstrap, B.K. Wagner and C.J. Summers
