Functional analysis and its applications : proceedings of the International Conference on Functional Analysis and its Applications, dedicated to the 110th anniversary of Stefan Banach, May 28-31, 2002, Lviv, Ukraine
The conference took place in Lviv, Ukraine and was dedicated to a famous Polish mathematician Stefan Banach { the most outstanding representative of the Lviv mathematical school. Banach spaces, introduced by Stefan Banach at the beginning of twentieth century, are familiar now to every mathematician. The book contains a short historical article and scientific contributions of the conference participants, mostly in the areas of functional analysis, general topology, operator theory and related topics
Preface . -- List of participants . -- Ya. G. Prytula. Stefan Banach and Lviv Mathematical School -- E. Alvoni, P.L. Papini. Existence of k-media and medians -- V.F. Babenko, S.V. Borodachov. On optimization of approximate -- integration of multivariate periodic functions -- T. Banakh, V.I. Bogachev, A.V. Kolesnikov. Topological spaces with -- the strong Skhorokhod property, II -- J. Ben Amara. Fourth order spectral problem with eigenvalue in -- the boundary conditions -- F. Cabello S̀nchez, J.M.F. Castillo, Y. Moreno, D.T. Yost. Extending operators into L[infinity] spaces under a twisted light -- R. Cauty. Un tȟor͏̈me de point fixe pour les fonctions multivoques -- acycliques -- S. Favorov, N. Parfyonova. Almost periodic mappings to complex -- manifolds -- V. Fedorchuk, V. Fedorchuk. Some new differential equations of the -- first-order in the spaces with M(1,3)xR(u) and M(1,4)xR(u) with given symmetry group -- R.O. Hryniv, Ya. V. Mykytyuk. Inverse spectral problems for Sturm-Liouville operators with singular potentials, II. -- Reconstruction by two spectra -- V. Il'kiv. Incorrect nonlocal boundary value problem for partial -- differential equations -- A. Karlovich. Singular integral operators with flip and unbounded -- coefficients on rearrangement-invariant spaces -- V.V. Kisil. Spectrum as the support of functional calculus -- A.P. Kombarov, A.N. Yakivchik. Generalized normality in -- topological products and related structures -- T. Kudryk, W. Lyantse, V. Neves. Nonstandard universe based on -- internal set theory -- K.G. Malyutin, N. Sadyk. The Beurling theorem for entire functions -- of finite order -- I. Matsak, A. Plichko. Dvoretzky's theorem by Gaussian method -- K.R. Mamedov, H. Menken. On the inverse problem of scattering -- theory for a differential operator of the second order -- S. Minczewa-Kamińska. On the automorphisms and multipliers related -- to generalized integration operators -- O.A. Ochakovskaya. On some classes of measure preserving mappings -- K. Piejko, J. Sok̤ł, J. Stankiewicz. On some problem of the convolution -- of bounded functions -- I.V. Orlov. Extreme problems and scales of the operator spaces -- A. Plichko. Superstrictly singular and superstrictly cosingular operators -- A. Radyna. Adic multivariate linear splines and their applications to approximation theory -- Ya. Radyna. Change of variable in integrals over p -adic and adelic -- domains -- A.A. Shkalikov. Invariant subspaces of dissipative operators in Krein -- space and Sobolev problem on a rotating top -- A. Tikhonov. Property of maximality for spectral components -- N. Tiṭa. A general view on approximation ideals -- N.P. Volchkova. Inversion of the local Pompeiu transform -- M.M. Zarichnyi. Space of probability measures and absolute extensors -- in the asymptotic category -- W. Żelazko. F-Algebras: some results and open problems
