Robert van't Hoff, architect of a new society : [published on the occasion of the Exhibition "All or Nothing - Robert van't Hoff, Architect of a New Society" held in the Kröller-Müller Museum in Otterlo from 2 April to 29 August 2010]
Architect and architecture theorist Robert van 't Hoff (1887-1979) made a highly idiosyncratic contribution to Dutch architecture of the twentieth century. Van 't Hoff was associated with De Stijl, one of the most important innovative forces in Dutch art and architecture of the early twentieth century. His buildings, writings and, for example, his financial support of De Stijl meant he was a pivotal member of the Dutch avant-garde. Van 't Hoff was fairly extreme in his views about the role of the architect. For instance, as the projects architect, he personally stood on the scaffolding during the construction of his renowned Villa Henny, a "white-collar worker" shoulder to shoulder with the "manual workers", in order to realize the new society with its greater social equality and well-being in combination with less private ownership. Besides designing for a new society he drew the logical conclusions of such ideologies for how he pursued his own life. Van 't Hoff won international fame for the Villa Henny (1915-1919)
Preface / Dolf Broekhuizen -- Essays -- All or Nothing Robert van 't Hoff 's Battle for a Better Society / Dolf Broekhuizen -- Family Pictures -- Robert van 't Hoff's Study The Acquisition of an Unknown Work / Evert van Straaten -- Well-Known/Unknown Robert van 't Hoff and the International Critics / Herman van Bergeijk -- Work -- Design for the facade of a semidetached house, motto Toekomst?' -- Landhuis Løvdalla (formerly De Lindt) -- Farmstead De Zaaier -- Studio house for Augustus John -- Design for a house with museum for John Quinn -- Verloop Summer House -- Villa A.B. Henny, Huize Nora -- Houseboat De Stijl -- Chair for houseboat De Stijl -- Newel post -- Design of a studio house for Bart van der Leck -- Renovation De Ligt house -- Design for a townhouse -- Design for a house for four families -- Design for blocks of flats, mass construction designs -- House Robert van 't Hoff -- Cabinet and bed -- Settee -- House for H.J. van 't Hoff -- House Robert van 't Hoff -- Design for commune Àpril Farm' Co-operative Association -- William Thompson bookcase -- Retrospective in a box -- Design for a residential community in Coventry -- Design for Chapel, Bashley -- Study New Milton -- Texts -- Architecture and Its Development [part 1] -- Architecture and Its Development [part 2] -- Architecture and Its Development [part 3] -- Technical Notes Private House at Huis ter Heide -- Technical Notes Summer House at Huis ter Heide -- Hotel, Restaurant and Bar D̀e Dubbele Sleutel' -- Notes on Appendix XX -- Jaarbeurs voor Kunstnijverheid -- Letter from Rob. van 't Hoff -- Rectification: Van 't Hoff -- March 7 1931 -- Design for an Apartment Building -- abolition
