Canadian Semantic Web : Technologies and Applications ; [the chapters are extended versions of a selected set of papers from the second Canadian Semantic Web Working Symposium (CSWWS 2009) and the twenty-first international Conference on Software Engineering and Knowledge Engineering (SEKE 2009). CSWWS 2009 was held in Kelowna, British Columbia in May 2009. Since many of the challenging aspects of the research problems tackled in the Semantic Web area fall in the realm of Artificial Intelligence or employ of AI techniques, CSWWS 2009 was organized in association with the 22nd Canadian Conference on Artificial Intelligence. SEKE 2009 was held in Boston, July 2009, aiming at bridging the two domains of Software Engineering and Knowledge Engineering together. Hence, the content of this book covers the theory and applications of SemanticWeb techniques from both important perspectives of Artificial Intelligence and Software Engineering]
The emergence of Web technologies for data and knowledge interaction gives rise to the need for supportive frameworks for knowledge distribution. Semantic Web technologies aim at providing shared semantic spaces for Web contents, such that people, applications and communities can use a common platform to share information. Also, many of the challenging aspects of the research problems tackled in the Semantic Web area fall in the realm of artificial intelligence or employment of AI techniques. Canadian Semantic Web: Technologies and Applications is an edited volume contributed by worldwide leaders in Semantic Web research, and was based on contributions to the 2nd Canadian Semantic Web Symposium, held in Kelowna, BC Canada in May, 2009. This volume introduces the most recentadvanced working theories, prototypes and applications on, AI technologies in the Semantic Web, Languages, tools and methodologies for the Semantic Web, Searching, querying, visualizing and interpreting the Semantic Web, Semantic Web-based Knowledge Management, Semantic Grid and semantic Grid services, Trust, Privacy, and Security on the Semantic Web and more. A special focus of this book is on applications of semantic web technology on electronic health. This book is intended for practitioners and researchers working in the related fields of the Semantic Web. Advanced-level focusing on computer science will also find this book valuable as a secondary text or reference book. TOC:Preface.- Semantic Web and Life Sciences.- Semantic Web and Knowledge Reasoning.- Application of semantic Web Techniques.- Modular, Distributed and Sub-Ontologies.- Index.
