Orthodox paradoxes : heterogeneities and complexities in contemporary Russian orthodoxy
Communicational aspects. Intellectual communication of Russian Orthodoxy from the enlightenment to modernity / Tatiana Artemyeva ; The polemic concerning Church Slavonic / Wil van den Bercken ; The Enthronement of Patriarch Kirill : a liturgical event / Per-Arne Bodin ; "Kirill's Doctrine" and the Potential Transformation of Russian Orthodox Christianity / Alexander Verkhovsky -- Contemporary Heterogeneities. Orthodox Fundamentalism: Intersection of Modernity, Postmodernity, and Tradition / Anastasia V. Mitrofanova ; Eschatological expectations in Post-Soviet Russia: Historical Context and Modes of Interpretation / Alexei Beglov ; Mediators Between Heaven and Earth: The Forms of Spiritual Guidance and Debate on Spiritual Elders in Present-Day Russian Orthodoxy / Irina Paert ; Why are Hegumen Paisii and St Maria of Paris not Included in the ROC Calendar of Saints? / Elina Kahla -- Aspects of Social Work. "Social Theology" and Social Work in the Romanian Orthodox Church: A Paradoxical Development? / Iuliana Conovici ; Participating in the Global Community: The "Syndesmos" experience of the Kazan Orthodox Youth / Ekaterina Khodzhaeva ; Orthodoxy and the Politics of Emotion in the Case of "Brother Ioann" Churikov and His Followers, 1910-1914 / Page Herrlinger -- Theological Aspects. Postmodern Orthodoxy? Text, Interpretation, and History in Orthodox Scholarship / Frank P. Bestebreurtje ; Debating the Theology of the Name in Post-Soviet Russia: Metropolitan Ilarion Alfeyev and Sergei Khoruzhii / Scott M. Kenworthy -- Tradition : Transformation or Invention? Rebuilding the Chain: Tradition, Continuity, and Processions of the Cross in Post-Soviet Russia / Stella Rock ; Paradoxes of Patriarchy: Orthodoxy and Gender in Post-Soviet Russia / Nadieszda Kizenko ; Contemporary Russian Church art? Between Tradition and Modernity / Lidia Chakovskaya -- ROC and Ecumenical Dialogue.  Paradoxes and Contradictions in Russian Orthodox Ecumenism. An Analysis of Non-Official Publications in the 1990s / Wil van den Bercken ; A Dialogue of Paradoxes: Orthodox? Old Catholic Dialogue / Peter-Ben Smit ; 'The language of fullness and the language of emptiness'. Dialogue between the Russian Orthodox Church and Buddhism? : a paradox / Ton Lathouwers
