Environmental and criminal geoforensics
Environmental and criminal geoforensics: an introduction / D. Pirrie, A. Ruffell and L.A. Dawson -- Forensic provenance investigations of soil and sediment samples / A.M. Bown and E. Caven -- X-ray diffraction and field portable x-ray fluorescence analysis and screening of soils: project design / E.T. Bergslien -- Automated forensic soil mineral analysis: testing the potential of lithotyping / D. Pirrie, G.K. Rollinson, M.R. Power and J. Webb -- The potential application of magnetic susceptibility as a technique for soil forensic examinations / A. Guedes, R.C. Murray, H. Ribeiro, H. Sant̕ovaia, B. Valentim, A. Rodrigues, S. Leal and F. Noronha -- Analysis of geological trace evidence in a case of criminal damage to graves / R.M. Di Maggio and L. Nuccetelli -- Using soil mineral signatures to confirm sources of industrial contaminant trespass / W.C. Isphording -- Geological and palynological characterization of a river beach in Portugal for forensic purposes / Á. Carvalho, H. Ribeiro, A. Guedes, L. Abreu and F. Noronha -- Integration of different sediment characteristics to discriminate between sources of coastal sediments / A. Guedes, R.C. Murray, H. Ribeiro, A. Rodrigues, B. Valentim, Sant̕ovaia, and F. Noronha -- How useful are databases in environmental and criminal forensics? / J. McKinley -- Instrumental neutron activation analysis (INAA) and forensic applications / G.N. Eby -- Lichen monitoring as a potential tool in environmental forensics: case study of the Cu smelter and former mining town of Karabash, Russia / O.W. Purvis, B.J. Williamson, B. Spiro, V. Udachin, I.N. Mikhailova and A. Dologopolova -- Issues and opportunities in urban forensic geology / A. Ruffell, D. Pirrie, and M.R. Power -- Solid and drift geology in forensic investigations / A. Ruffell -- Geomorphological and geoforensic interpretation of maps, aerial imagery, conditions of diggability and the colour-coded RAG priorization system in searches for criminal burials / L. Donnelly and M. Harrison -- The design and implementation of a high-assurance forensic geology and police search following the discovery of the Staffordshire (Angelo Saxon) Gold Hoard / L. Donnelly -- Detection of fatty acids in the lateral extent of the cadaver decomposition island / M. Larizza and S.L. Forbes -- Ground penetrating radar use in three contrasting soil textures in southern Ontario / A.C. Lowe, D.V. Beresford, D.O. Carter, F. Gaspari, R.C. O'Brien and S.L. Forbes -- Comparison of magnetic, electrical and ground penetrating radar surveys to detect buried forensic objects in semi-urban and domestic patio environments / J.D. Hansen and J.K. Pringle -- The effectiveness of geophysical techniques in detecting a range of buried metallic weapons at various depths and orientations / T. Richardson and P.N. Cheetham
Geological techniques are widely used in two aspects of serious criminal investigations: (1) the search for clandestine burial sites, based on near-surface geophysics or through the detection of decomposition signals and (2) the analysis of trace evidence to identify its source location or test the possible association between the trace evidence and a known location of an offence. Although geoforensics is used in such investigations world-wide there are still considerable gaps in the published literature. In addition, there is increasing concern regarding the illegal release of wastes either into the atmosphere, water courses or on to the land surface, and a growing realization that the techniques used in criminal forensics are equally useful in the investigation of environmental crime. This book bridges the gap between environmental and criminal geoforensics with conceptual, methodological and case study contributions. This demonstrates the significant potential that geoforensics holds for investigating and regulatory officers
