Novel water treatment and separation methods : simulation of chemical processes
Photocatalytic degradation of herbicide by using aeroxide(r)P-90 TiO2 photocatalyst and photo-Fenton process in the presence of artificial and solar radiation / V. Sakhalkar, A. Khandare, M.P. Deosarkar, and S.P. Kamble -- Studies on removal of anionic dye using emulsion liquid membrane / R. Kankate, S. Ghodke, and S. Sonawane -- Zinc oxide microarchitectures with exposed crystal face for enhanced photocatalytic activity / S.P. Chaudhari, S.P. Meshram, P.D. Jolhe, G.N. Chaudhari, and A.B. Bodade -- Sonochemical synthesis of Mg-doped ZnO NPs for efficient sunlight driven photocatalysis / S.P. Meshram, P.D. Jolhe, S.D. Shingte, B.A. Bhanvase, and S.H. Sonawane -- Intensified removal of Cu2+ and Fe2+ using green activated carbon derived from lantana camara stem and soya hull and its comparison with commercial activated carbon / A.A. Kadu, B.A. Bhanvase, and S.H. Sonawane -- Defluoridation of drinking water using Fe-Al mixed metal hydroxides / T. Telang, M.P. Deosarkar, R. Shetty, and S.P. Kamble -- Adsorption of hexavalent chromium by using sweet lime and orange peel powder / N.M. Rane, S.P. Shewale, S.V. Admane, and R.S. Sapkal -- Investigation on elimination of Cr(Vi) from wastewater by powdered shell of peas as adsorbent / V.S. Wadgaonkar and R.P. Ugwekar -- Removal of calcium and magnesium from wastewater using ion exchange resins / V.D. Pakhale and P.R. Gogate -- Degradation of vegetable oil refinery wastewater using hydrodynamic cavitation : a process intensification technique / P.B. Dhanke and S.M. Wagh -- Visible light photocatalytic degradation of coralene dark red 2b / M.D. Sardare, P. Kotwal, S. Jadhav, S. Waghela, and S.M. Sontakke -- Microwave-assisted extraction of carvone from carum carvi / O.D. Borole, S. R. Shirsath, and S.G. Gaikwad -- Kinetic model for extraction of betulinic acid by batch extraction from leaves of Syzygium cumini (jamun) / S.V. Admane, S.G. Gaikwad, and S.M. Chavan -- Reactive extraction of propionic acid / A. Thorgule and R.P. Ugwekar -- Flow characteristics of novel solid-liquid multistage circulating fluidized bed / M.A. Thombare and P.V. Chavan -- Mathematical modeling and simulation of gasketed plate heat exchanger / J. Katiyar and S. Husain -- Optimization of adsorption capacity of prepared activated carbon using response surface methodology / V.N. Ganvir, M.L. Meshram, and R.R. Patil -- Modeling of ethanol/water separation by pervaporation membrane process / N.G. Kanse, R.P. Birmod, and S.D. Dawande -- Modeling and simulation of crystallizer using copper oxide based nanofluids / G.P. Lakhawat and R.P. Ugwekar -- Sensitivity analysis of shell and tube heat exchanger using chemcad / S.M. Wagh, D.P. Barai, and M.H. Talwekar -- Extractive distillation simulation for the separation of methylcyclohexane and toluene mixture with phenol as an extractor using chemcad / S.S. Anwani and S.P. Shirsat -- An experimental review of non-destructive testing methods for fruits and vegetables / A. Sharma, Md. N. Iqbal, and S. Singha -- Novel technology for essential fatty acids : an experimental review / S.P. Nayak and S. Singha
