Handbook of food bioengineering / edited by Alexandru Mihai Grumezescu, Alina Maria Holban ; Volume 4: Ingredients extraction by physicochemical methods in food
Ingredients Extraction by Physico-chemical Methods, Volume Four, the latest release in the Handbook of Food Bioengineering series, reveals the most investigated extraction methods of ingredients and their impact on the food industry. This resource describes types of ingredients that may be extracted through physico-chemical methods (i.e. specific plants, fruits, spices, etc.), along with their particularities to help readers understand their biological effect and solve research problems. The extraction methods of bioactive compounds and functional ingredients are discussed, along with information on green ingredient extraction strategies to help reduce harmful environmental and health effects.
Extraction methods in this book can be applied for multiple purposes within the food industry, such as ingredients separation for food development, the purification and separation of toxic compounds from a food mixture, and the recovery of natural bioactive compounds.
1. Methods for Extractions of value added nutraceuticals from lignocellulosic wastes and their health application 2. Modern Extraction Techniques for Drugs and Medicinal Agents 3. Advances in extraction, fractionation and purification of low-molecular mass compounds from food and biological samples 4. Valorization of agri-food by-products by extracting valuable bioactive compounds using green processes 5. Extraction of Bioactive Phenolic Compounds by Alternative Technologies 6. The extraction of heavy metals from vegetable samples 7. Extraction and use of functional plant ingredients for the development of functional foods 8. Extracting bioactive compounds from natural sources using green high-energy approaches: Trends and opportunities in lab- and large-scale applications 9. Assessment of the state-of the-art developments in the extraction of antioxidants from marine algal species 10. The use of ultrasound as an enhancement aid to food extraction 11. Extraction of bioactive compounds from olive leaves using emerging technologies 12. Separation of bioactive whey proteins and peptides 13. Phytochemicals: An insight to modern extraction technologies and their applications 14. Extraction Technologies and Solvents of Phytocompounds from Plant Materials: Physico-chemical Characterization and Identification of Ingredients and Bioactive Compounds from Plant extract using Various Instrumentations 15. An energy-based approach to scale up microwave-assisted extraction of plant bioactives
