The Cambridge companion to the Dutch Golden Age
"Even today few people are unaffected by the term 'Dutch Golden Age'. So commonly has the phrase been applied to the Dutch seventeenth century in, for instance, museums, (art) history books, and tourist guides that it seldom fails to conjure up a range of iconic associations. For many, it will evoke pictures by Rembrandt, Vermeer, Hals, or one of the many other only slightly less famous painters. Others associate it primarily with Dutch economic prosperity and the Republic's trade empire, and might envision the rich merchant houses along the Amsterdam canals, Delftware, or the great East Indiamen of the VOC. Some will think of one or two of the many wars fought by the Dutch Republic, most likely the revolt against Habsburg Spain, the three naval wars against England, or the battles against Louis XIV's France. Grotius, Huygens, Spinoza and the great intellectual achievements of the seventeenth-century Dutch Republic might be less prominent in the minds of most people, as would be the rest of its immense textual heritage, but still one can expect one or two mentions from that field as well. And that is only scratching the surface: evidently, the Dutch Golden Age connotes a great many, very disparate things that are nevertheless distinctive enough to be called Dutch."--
Introduction: Understanding the Dutch Golden Age / Helmer J. Helmers and Geert H. Janssen -- Part1. Space and people -- Urbanization / Maarten Prak -- Water and land / J. L. Price -- Migration / Geert H. Janssen -- Part 2. A State of War -- The armed forces / Pepijn Brandon -- The cult and memory of war and violence / Judith Pollmann -- Part 3. Political Culture -- The body politic / David Onnekink -- Popular participation and public debate / Helmer J. Helmers -- Part 4. Economy and Trade -- A market economy / Danielle van den Heuvel -- Global trade / Michiel van Groesen -- Part 5. Religious Culture -- Reformed Protestantism / Charles H. Parker -- Religious tolerance / Christine Kooi -- Spiritual culture / Angela Vanhaelen -- Part 6. Art and Literature -- The markets for art, books and luxury goods / Claartje Rasterhoff -- Genre painting / Wayne Franits -- The world of literature / Theo Hermans --  Dutch classicism in Europe / Stijn Bussels -- Part 6. Realms of Knowledge --  Education / Dirk van Miert -- Science and technology / Harold J. Cook -- Radical thought / Jonathan Israel -- Epilogue: the legacy of the Dutch Golden Age / Helmer J. Helmers and Geert H. Janssen
"During the seventeenth century, the Dutch Republic was transformed into a leading political power in Europe, with global trading interests. It nurtured some of the period's greatest luminaries, including Rembrandt, Vermeer, Descartes and Spinoza. Long celebrated for its religious tolerance, artistic innovation and economic modernity, the United Provinces of the Netherlands also became known for their involvement with slavery and military repression in Asia, Africa, and the Americas. This Companion provides a compelling overview of the best scholarship on this much debated era, written by a wide range of experts in the field. Unique in its balanced treatment of global, political, socio-economic, literary, artistic, religious, and intellectual history, its nineteen chapters offer an indispensable guide for anyone interested in the world of the Dutch Golden Age"--
