International perspectives on business innovation and disruption in the creative industries : film, video and photography
'Independent film makers and local media companies use the digital transformation of the business to find new ways for producing, funding and broadcasting their works of art. Their innovative ideas change the existing value chains and create new relations between artists and audiences that have previously been unimaginable. This is a great collection of chapters that give insight into a fascinating field of study: congratulations to the authors and editors!'--Kathrin M. Möslein, University Erlangen-Nuremberg and HHL Leipzig Graduate School of Management, Germany. 'At a time when the creative industries are becoming increasingly important for economic growth and employment prospects, this highly original and authoritative volume explores the digital disruptions and the related industry transformation in these sectors. The different studies bring to life the new sources of creative content, the new business models and value propositions emerging in different countries in a variety of creative industries associated with imagery. It is vital reading for all researchers and practitioners with a stake in understanding and contributing to a major force in the current economic transformation towards knowledge-based economies.'--Marcela Miozzo, The University of Manchester, UK. 'This excellent set of expert chapters covers all aspects of innovative change in the creative industries. What sets this volume apart is its strong focus on very recent developments and phenomena, like customer co-creation, crowdfunding, or managing long-tail markets. I found plenty of new ideas for my own research!'--Frank T. Piller, RWTH Aachen University, Germany and MIT, US. 'The film, video and photography industries have been transformed in recent years by digitisation, the emergence of new business models, and new modes of collaboration between "the crowd" and professional practitioners in the financing, production and distribution of media content. Through multiple case and country studies, this book augments analysis of creative industries' dynamics and deepens understanding of business innovation and strategy in knowledge-based economies. This volume should be required reading for students, researchers and practitioners in media industries and management.'--Ben Goldsmith, ARC Centre of Excellence for Creative Industries and Innovation, Australia. 'The way we create, fund and share experiences is going through rapid and profound change. The chapters of DeFillippi and Wikström's exc ...
pt. I. Film industry disruption and transformation -- pt. II. Co-creation, crowd-funding and crowd-sourcing
