Chemical technology and informatics in chemistry with applications
"This new volume, Chemical Technology and Informatics in Chemistry with Applications, reflects the huge breadth and diversity in research and the application of industrial and engineering chemistry and cheminformatics. The book presents cutting-edge research developments that present new insights and that emphasize the vibrancy of industrial and engineering chemistry and cheminformatics today. Several chapters examine various industrial processes for emerging materials and determine practical use under a wide range of conditions, helping to establish what is needed to produce a new generation of materials. Other chapters focus on the informatics approach to chemical science"--
Use of probiotics as a feed in aquaculture: a review / Vidhya Hindu S., Natarajan Chandrasekaran, Amitava Mukherjee, and John Thomas -- Experimental investigation of carbonization processes in the formation of foam-based epoxy resin containing carbon nanoparticles / S. G. Shuklin, D. S. Shuklin, and A. V. Vakhrushev -- Use of genetic algorithms to solve optimization problems: a critical overview and a vision for the future / Sukanchan Palit -- Beer, all a science, alcohol: analysis and quality testing at multiple brewery stages / Francisco Torrens and Gloria Castellano -- Ozonation of industrial wastewater and the future of industrial pollution control: a critical review and a vision for the future / Sukanchan Palit -- Novel applications of multiferroic heterostructures / Ann Rose Abraham, Sabu Thomas, and Nandakumar Kalarikkal -- THz generation from gallium arsenide semiconductor surfaces and its application in spectroscopy / M. Venkatesh, Ganesh Damarla, and A. K. Chaudhary -- Multiferroic polymer film composites for memory application / Rehana P Ummer and Nandakumar Kalarikkal -- Chlorofluorocarbons, ozone levels evaluation, people actions, tropospheric o3, and air quality / Francisco Torrens and Gloria Castellano -- Lignin utilization as a wood surface coating and its role in feasibility assessment of lignocellulose-based bioethanol in Indonesia: a cheminformatics approach / Teuku Beuna Bardant, Heru Susanto, and Arief Amier Rahman Setiawan -- A shifting paradigm of a chemistry methods approach: cheminformatics / Heru Susanto, Ching Kang Chen, Teuku Beuna Bardant, and Arief Amier Rahman Setiawan -- Informatics for sciences: a novel approach / Heru Susanto, Ching Kang Chen, and Teuku Beuna Bardant -- Shifting paradigm of communication technology emerging technology: cheminformatics a beneficial of sciences / Heru Susanto -- High-performance grid computing for cheminformatics / Heru Susanto, Fang-Yie Leu, and Ching Kang Chen -- High-performance grid computing for science: a review / Heru Susanto, Fang-Yie Leu, and Ching Kang Chen
