Handbook of polymer tribology
Adhesion and friction of polymers and polymer composites / Nikolai Myshkin and Alexander Kovalev -- In-situ observation to improve the analysis of the scratch damage of coated polymeric surfaces / Vincent Le Houérou, Leandro Jacomine and Christian Gauthier -- Wear of UHMWPE for joint prosthesis / Yoshinori Sawae -- Biopolymer tribology / Tom Joyce -- State-of-the-art of rubber tribology / Si-wei Zhang -- FEM modeling of scratch-induced deformation in polymers / Mohammad Motaher Hossain and Hung-Jue Sue -- Tribology of UHMWPE and peek bulk and composite coatings : a review / Satheesan Bobby and Mohammed Abdul Samad -- Transfer film properties and their role in polymer wear / Jiaxin Ye, Diana Haidar and David Burris -- Polymer composites for tribological applications in a range between liquid helium and room temperature / Klaus Friedrich, Geraldine Theiler and Patrick Klein -- Tribology of the PEEK polymer filled with solid lubricants / M. Zalaznik Jerina and M. Kalin 5 -- Solid particle erosion behavior of polymers and their composites / A. P. Harsha -- Self-lubricating and self-healing behavior of polymer matrix composites functionalized with microencapsulated chemicals / N. W. Khun and E. Liu -- Engineering polymers and composites for machine elements / K. D. Dearn, S. N. Kukureka and D. Walton -- Weathering effects on scratch damage in polymer coatings / Aravind Dasari -- Friction behavior of polymer brush immobilized surfaces in good solvents / Yuji Higaki, Motoyasu Kobayashi and Atsushi Takahara -- Lithographic fabrication of polymer structures for MEMS tribology / R. Arvind Singh, S. Jayalakshmi, Sujeet K. Sinha and HoonEui Jeong -- The role of intermediate surface on the wear durability of UHMWPE coated Si / Myo Minn and Sujeet K. Sinha -- Tribology of self-lubricating SU-8 composites for MEMS applications / Prabakaran Saravanan, S. K. Sinha and Joichi Sugimura -- Thin ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene and perfluoropolyether coatings on Ti6Al4V alloy for biomedical applications / Bharat Panjwani and Sujeet K. Sinha -- Tribological studies of ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene (UHMWPE) thin films on silicon surface / N. Satyanarayana and S. K. Sinha -- Surface modifications and texturing for high wear durability in boundary lubrication for polymeric surfaces / Sujeet K. Sinha -- Tribological aspects of polymer-based flexible electronic materials : from manufacturing to end-use applications / Kostas A. Sierros and Stephen N. Kukureka
