Quantum Foundations, Probability and Information
The Dirac equation as one fourth-order equation for one function-a general manifestly covariant form (Andrey Akhmeteli) -- At the crossroads of three seemingly divergent approached to quantum mechanics (Carlos Baladrón, Andrei Khrennikov) -- Implications of Einstein-Weyl Causality on Quantum Mechanics (D.J. BenDaniel) -- The action reaction principle in Quantum Mechanics (Carlos Lopez) -- Inflation, Higgs field and Dark Matter in the Weyl-geometrical Universe (Francesco De Martini) -- Replacing Nothing with Something Special: Contextuality-byDefault and Dummy Measurements (Ehtibar N. Dzhafarov) -- A computational proof of locality in entanglement (Han Geurdes) -- Efficient Energy Transfer in Network Model of Photosynthesis (Yuta Mitome, Satoshi Iriyama, Keiko Sato, Igor V. Volovich) -- Clockwork Rebooted: Is the Universe a Computer? (Gregg Jaeger) -- External observer reflections on Qbism, its possible modifications, and novel applications (Andrei Khrennikov) -- Epistemic View of Quantum Communication (Subhash Kak) -- Quantum decoherence emulated in a classical device (Brian R. La Cour, Corey I. Ostrove, Micheal J. Starkey, Granville E. Ott) -- Local Realism without Hidden Variables (Ghenadie N. Mardari).- Underground test of quantum mechanics-the VIP2 experiment (Johann Marton, S. Bartalucci, A. Bassi, M. Bazzi, S. Bertolucci, C, Berucci, M. Bragadireanu, M. Cragnelli, A. Clozza, C. Curceanu, L. De Paolis, D. Di Matteo, S. Donali, J.-P. Egger, C. Guaraldo, M. Iliescu, M. Laubenstein, E. Milotti, A. Pichler, D. Pietreanu, K. Piscicchia, A. Scordo, H. Shi, D. Sirghi, F. Sirghi, L. Sperandio, O. Vasquez-Doce, E. Widmann and J. Zmeskal).- Feynman integrals for a new class of time-dependent exponentially Growing Potentials (Hammah Mohameden, Habib Ouerdiane).- Classical Field Theory of the photoelectric effect (Sergey A. Rashkovskiy).- Classification Problem in a Quantum Framework (Enrica Santucci, Giuseppe Sergioli).- On Complexity for open System Dynamics (Noboru Watanabe) -- Bell Correlations and the Common Future (Amin Baumeler, Julien Degorre, and Stefan Wolf).- Temporal Vibrations in a Quantized Field (Hou Yau) -- Index
Composed of contributions from leading experts in quantum foundations, this volume presents viewpoints on a number of complex problems through informational, probabilistic, and mathematical perspectives and features novel mathematical models of quantum and subquantum phenomena. Rich with multi-disciplinary mathematical content, this book includes applications of partial differential equations in quantum field theory, differential geometry, oscillatory processes and vibrations, and Feynman integrals for quickly growing potential functions.  Due to rapid growth in the field in recent years, this volume aims to promote interdisciplinary collaboration in the areas of quantum probability, information, communication and foundation, and mathematical physics. Many papers discuss complex yet novel problems that depart from the mainstream of quantum physical studies. Others devote explanation to fundamental problems of the conventional quantum theory, including its mathematical formalism. Overall, authors cover a diverse set of topics, including quantum and classical field theory and oscillatory processing, quantum mechanics from a Darwinian evolutionary perspective, and biological applications of quantum theory. Together in one volume, these essays will be useful to experts in the corresponding areas of quantum theory. Theoreticians, experimenters, mathematicians, and even philosophers in quantum physics and quantum probability and information theory can consider this book a valuable resource.
