Infrared antennas and resonant structures
"Infrared antennas and resonant structures are examples of the advances achieved during the last two decades based on the electromagnetic interaction of light and a wise combination of material and geometry. These interesting devices can be applied to a variety of fields in optics and photonics, where infrared detection can now overcome the limitations of previous technologies. This book starts with the basics of electromagnetism applicable to the interaction of light with metallic structures having a size comparable to the wavelength, then discusses the special behavior of metals; how to model, design, and validate through simulation of the proposed geometries; how to fabricate the most promising device designs; and various characterization techniques. Then follows a description of the two main types of devices developed by the authors: those producing an electric signal (antenna-coupled devices) and those changing the parameters of the light incident on the resonant elements (resonant optics). The book concludes by discussing challenges currently being addressed and those that might be met in new research and future devices"--
1. Introduction: 1.1. Historical background; 1.2. Organization of the text -- 2. Basic electromagnetism: 2.1. The Drude-Lorentz model; 2.2. Impedance matching; -- 3. Modeling, design, and simulation: 3.1. Material and fabrication constraints; 3.2. Classical designs; 3.3. Computational electromagnetism; 3.4. Multiphysics approach -- 4. Fabrication: 4.1. Optical and electron-beam lithography; 4.2. Thin-film deposition methods; 4.3. Etching -- 5. Characterization and testing: 5.1. Spatial responsivity; 5.2. Angular response; 5.3. Spectral selectivity; 5.4. Polarization selectivity; 5.5. Noise; 5.6. SNR and D*; 5.7. Biasing electronics and modulation; 5.8. Near-field measurements -- 6. Antenna-coupled detectors: 6.1. Transduction mechanisms; 6.2. Phased-array antennas; 6.3. Rectennas and energy harvesters -- 7. Resonant optics: 7.1. Frequency-selective surfaces; 7.2. Resonant optical retarders; 7.3. Resonant phase plates -- 8. Conclusions and open issues -- References
