International handbook on diversity management at work : country perspectives on diversity and equal treatment
Managing and developing diversity is on the political and business agenda in many countries; therefore diversity management has become an area of knowledge and practice in its own right. Yet all too often it is referred to as a unifying concept, as if it were to be interpreted uniformly across all cultures and countries. The contributors to this volume expertly examine the relationship between diversity management and equality legislation within the different participating countries' national contexts. They advocate that such separation and sequencing between equality at work and diversity management is far from natural
1. Managing gender diversity in Pakistan and Turkey : a historical review / Mustafa Özbilgin, Jawad Syed and Beliz Dereli -- 2. Austrian perspectives on diversity management and equal treatment : regulations, debates, practices and trends / Regine Bendl, Edeltraud Hanappi-Egger and Roswitha Hofmann -- 3. Diversity management in Belgium / Annie Cornet and Patrizia Zanoni -- 4. Employment equity and workplace diversity in Canada / Rana Haq and Eddy S.W. Ng -- 5. Equality and diversity in the French context / Anne-Françoise Bender, Alain Klarsfeld and Jacqueline Laufer -- 6. Social inequality, diversity and equal treatment at work : the German case / Verena Bruchhagen ... [et al.] -- 7. Affirmative action in India : caste-based reservations / Rana Haq and Abhoy K. Ojha -- 8. The development of diversity management in the Italian context : a slow process / Annalisa Murgia and Barbara Poggio -- 9. Laws, policies and practices of diversity management in the Netherlands / Inge Bleijenbergh, Marloes van Engen and Ashley Terlouw -- 10. Singapore : equality, harmony and fair employment / Audrey Chia and Angeline Lim -- 11. Employment equity and diversity management in South Africa / Lize A.E. Booysen and Stella M. Nkomo -- 12. A possible brain drain : workplace diversity and equal treatment in Sweden / Viktorija Kalonaityte, Pushkala Prasad and Adiam Tedros -- 13. Diversity made in Switzerland : traditional and new plurality meets the business case / Julia Nentwich, Chris Steyaert and Brigitte Liebig -- 14. Discourses and practices of diversity management in the UK / Ahu Tatlı -- 15. Managing diversity in the USA : the evolution of inclusion in the workplace / Waheeda Lillevik, Gwendolyn M. Combs and Cheryl Wyrick
