The neuroscience of organizational behavior
Preface -- 1. Understanding organizational neuroscience -- 2. Methods of organizational neuroscience -- 3. Neural basis of decision making -- 4. Neural basis of creativity and innovation -- 5. Neural basis of motivation and rewards -- 6. Neural basis of leadership -- 7. Neural basis of fairness -- 8. Neural basis of trust and cooperation -- 9. Neural basis of ethics and morality -- 10. Neural basis of emotions and unconscious bias -- Conclusion -- References -- Index
The Neuroscience of Organizational Behavior establishes the scientific foundations of organizational neuroscience, a nascent discipline that explores the neural correlates of human behavior in organizations. This timely and insightful book draws from several disciplines including the organizational sciences, neuroeconomics, cognitive psychology, social cognitive neuroscience and neuroscience to review the neuroscientific methods and techniques that organizational scholars can use to study the neural basis of organizational behavior. The topics discussed include the neural foundations of decision-making, leadership, fairness, trust and cooperation, emotions, ethics and morality, unconscious bias and diversity in the workplace. Organizational neuroscience can provide valuable insights for organizational scholars to develop new theories, refine existing theories, ask new questions or reformulate old questions.^This book will not only serve as a resource for scholars and graduate students studying organizational behavior, it could also provide guidelines to managers in helping them to better understand and manage employees and organizations. The Neuroscience of Organizational Behavior establishes the scientific foundations of organizational neuroscience, a nascent discipline that explores the neural correlates of human behavior in organizations. This timely and insightful book draws from several disciplines including the organizational sciences, neuroeconomics, cognitive psychology, social cognitive neuroscience and neuroscience to review the neuroscientific methods and techniques that organizational scholars can use to study the neural basis of organizational behavior. The topics discussed include the neural foundations of decision-making, leadership, fairness, trust and cooperation, emotions, ethics and morality, unconscious bias and diversity in the workplace.^Organizational neuroscience can provide valuable insights for organizational scholars to develop new theories, refine existing theories, ask new questions or reformulate old questions. This book will not only serve as a resource for scholars and graduate students studying organizational behavior, it could also provide guidelines to managers in helping them to better understand and manage employees and organizations
