The political economy of Hurricane Katrina and community rebound
In 2005 Hurricane Katrina posed an unprecedented set of challenges to formal and informal systems of disaster response and recovery. Informed by the Virginia School of Political Economy, the contributors to this study critically examine the public policy environment that led to both successes and failures in the post-Katrina disaster response and long-term recovery. Building from this perspective, this book lends critical insight into the nature of the social coordination problems disasters present, the potential for public policy to play a positive role, and the inherent limitations policymakers face in overcoming the myriad challenges that are a product of catastrophic disaster
Introduction : uncertainty and discovery in a post-disaster context / Emily Camlee-Wright, Virgil Henry Storr ; Uncertainty in the post-Katrina Big Easy / Adam Martin -- The use of knowledge in natural disaster relief management / Russel S. Sobel, Peter T. Leeson -- Making hurricane response more effective : lessons from the private sector and the Coast Guard during Katrina / Steven Horwitz -- Restricting reconstruction : occupational licensing and natural disasters / David Skarbek -- The role of social entrepreneurship in post-Katrina community recovery / Emily Chamlee-Wright, Virgil Henry Storr ; Entrepreneurship and social networks in post-disaster environments / Petrik Runst -- Rock me like a hurricane! : how music communities promote social capital adept for recovery / Daniel J. D'Amico -- Lessons from post-flood recovery of New Orleans and Prague / Leonid O. Krasnozhon, Daniel M. Rothschild -- Earth, wind, and fire! Federalism and incentive in natural disaster response / Emily C. Schaeffer, Andrew Kashan -- The road home : helping homeowners in the Gulf after Katrina / Eileen Norcross, Anthony Skriba -- School choice and post-Katrina New Orleans : an analysis / Jeb Bleckley, Joshua Hall -- Improving academics in the aftermath : a case study of New Orleans' experiment with charter schools / Erin Marie Agemy.
