Theoretical perspectives on family businesses
Family business has become an increasingly studied field over the last decade and forms one of the fastest growing research areas today. The uniqueness of family business is the interaction between two systems: the family and the firm, leading to specific characteristics that we rarely see in other types of businesses. In order to understand the unique interaction between these two systems, researchers have adopted a diverse range of theories drawn from different fields. The contributors to this volume provide a thorough discussion of 13 theoretical perspectives that have been used in family business research. Each chapter introduces a theory, demonstrates its previous application in family business research and offers compelling ideas for future research that could contribute to both the family business field and the original theory behind it. This book aims to spark new insights for researchers and PhD students in the field of family business, and is also a good introduction for researchers who are new to the field. Policymakers and practitioners will find this an enlightening resource
1. Introducing theoretical perspectives on family business / Mattias Nordqvist ... [et al.] -- 2. Organisational ecology and the family business / Giuseppe Criaco -- 3. Behavioural theory and the family business / Ambra Mazzelli -- 4. Agency theory and the family business / Andreas Kallmuenzer -- 5. Behavioural agency theory and the family business / Gershon Kumeto -- 6. Theory of planned behaviour and the family business / Andrea Kuiken -- 7. Process thinking and the family business / Emanuela Rondi -- 8. Social identity theory and the family business / Matthias Waldkirch -- 9. Organisational culture and the family business / Rocky Adiguna -- 10. Kinship and the family business / Naveed Akhter -- 11. Gender theory and the family business / Karin Staffansson Pauli -- 12. Critical pedagogy theory and the family business / Henrietta Nilson -- 13. Corporate reputation and the family business / Albertha Wielsma -- 14. Resource-based theory and the family business / Per Hansson.
