The American house : 100 contemporary homes
"The American House is an outstanding and extensive collection of contemporary residential designs seen across the United States today. This book follows the incredibly successful and recently published title European House, which also features a gorgeous collection of residential architecture produced by architects from across the globe. The American House contains cutting-edge residential designs by leading architects from across the United States, illuminated with rarely seen photographs and detailed plans, and underlines the sensitivity of today's architects to the natural environment, as well as the care and attention paid to interior design and everyday living. This new volume features myriad ranges of style, sophistication, affordability, site and landscape, with an emphasis on sustainability practices in both construction and design. Each project illustrates how architects adapt their designs to accommodate the challenges posed by the local topography and variations in climate, along with a sharp focus on optimum strategies for sustainable living, be it across small, boutique projects, to large-scale, luxury abodes. This book reveals the world's top architectural trends shaping the future and the architectural visions of several forward-thinking architects. This book is coordinated by Images Publishing, one of the world's most prestigious international publishers of architecture and design titles. Images specialises in lavishly illustrated and beautifully designed books on architecture and interior design. The Master Architect series has documented the success of many of the world's most inspired architects, and boasts a leading collection of architecture monographs. Most recently IMAGES launched its comprehensive pictorial Leading Architects of the World monograph series and the richly illustrated 21st Century Masters the evolution of the influential 100 of the World's Best series. Other popular series include New Classicists, Details in Architecture, Neo Architecture, and several series of anthologies produced in conjunction with the American Institute of Architects (AIA) and the Council on Tall Buildings and Urban Habitat (CTBUH)." -- provided by publisher
