Introduction to adaptive optics
1. A long time ago, in a laboratory far, far, really far away -- 2. Adaptive optics systems--optics is our middle name -- Physical/wave optics as it applies to adaptive optics -- Strehl ratio -- 3. Speaking the language: a few definitions -- Power in the bucket -- Zernike polynomials -- Phase conjugation -- Imaging and MTF -- 4. Atmospheric turbulence: bad air ... bad, bad air -- Structure constant -- Gaussian beams -- Fried's coherence length -- Scintillation -- Resolution and the halo -- Temporal effects: the Greenwood frequency -- Thermal blooming -- Anisoplanatism -- 5. Laser guide stars: beacons in the wilderness -- Why we can't measure global tilt from a laser guide star -- 6. Systems: putting it all together -- Configurations of adaptive optics systems -- 7. Wavefront sensors: the eyes -- Measuring tilt -- The quadcell -- Measuring focus -- Interferometers -- The principle of the shearing interferometer -- Hartmann sensors -- Curvature sensing -- Image sharpening -- Wavefront sensor requirements -- Detectors -- Beamsplitters and samplers -- 8. Deformable mirrors: the hands -- Types of deformable mirrors -- Tilt mirrors -- Deformable mirrors -- Deformable mirror requirements -- Bimorph deformable mirrors -- Micromachined deformable mirrors -- 9. Control computers and reconstructors: the brains -- Single-channel servo control -- Single-channel dynamic control -- Bandwidth limitations -- Phase reconstruction -- Example problem: actuator commands from wavefront slopes
Adaptive optics systems and components have achieved a level of sophistication and simplicity that goes beyond traditional applications in astronomy and the military and into developments in medicine, manufacturing, and communications. This book was written for those interested in the multidisciplinary technology and those who need a broad-brush explanation without wading through thousands of journal articles. It follows the structure of a one-day tutorial taught by the author, including humor and sidebars of historical material
