Handbook of food bioengineering / edited by Alexandru Mihai Grumezescu, Alina Maria Holban ; Volume 14: Advances in biotechnology for food industry
1. Role of Biotechnology in the Agro-Food Industry 2. Biotechnology in Food Processing and Preservation: An Overview 3. Enzymes and food industry: a consolidated marriage 4. Lactic Acid Bacteria – From Nature through Food to Health 5. Development of controlled co-cultivations for reproducible results in fermentation processes in food biotechnology 6. Progress of biotechnology in food industry 7. Improvement of ripened cheese quality and safety with Thymus mastichina L. bioactive extracts 8. Potential of high hydrostatic pressure to improve the production of plants used as food 9. Corrosion in electronic sensors used in the manufacturing processes decrease the quality in the seafood industry located in the coast of Baja California, Mexico 10. Biotechnology of Ice Wine Production 11. Metagenomics of Traditional Beverages 12. Process Engineering Applying Supercritical Technology For Obtaining Functional And Therapeutic Products 13. Sugar beet pulp as a source of valuable biotechnological products 14. Biofilm mitigation in food industry: mitigation using bacteriophages 15. Bioactive properties and biotechnological production of human milk oligosaccharides
Advances in Biotechnology for Food Industry, Volume Fourteen in the Handbook of Food Bioengineering series, provides recent insight into how biotechnology impacts the global food industry and describes how food needs are diverse, requiring the development of innovative biotechnological processes to ensure efficient food production worldwide. Many approaches were developed over the last 10 years to allow faster, easier production of widely used foods, food components and therapeutic food ingredients. This volume shows how biotechnological processes increase production and quality of food products, including the development of anti-biofilm materials to decrease microbial colonization in bioreactors and food processing facilities.
