Enthalpy and internal energy : liquids, solutions and vapours
Internal Energy and Enthalpy : Introduction, Concepts and Selected Applications / Emmerich Wilhelm -- Macroscopic Energy and Entropy Balances in Phase Equilibrium Studies / J. David Raal and Deresh Ramjugernath -- Enthalpy Measurements of Condensed Matter by Peltier-element-based Adiabatic Scanning Calorimetry (pASC) / Jan Thoen, Jan Leys, Patricia Losada-Pérez and Christ Glorieux -- Isothermal Titration Calorimetry / José Manuel del Río and Jean-Pierre E. Grolier -- Calorimetric Determination of Enthalpies of Vaporization / Dzmitry H. Zaitsau and Eugene Paulechka -- Energetic Effects in Hydrogen-bonded Liquids and Solutions / Claudio A. Cerdeirin̋a, Kateřina Zemánková and Miguel Costas -- Thermodynamic Studies of Inclusion Compounds of Cyclodextrin / Takayoshi Kimura -- Thermodynamic Studies of Chiral Compounds / Takayoshi Kimura -- Temperature Dependence of the Enthalpy of Alkanes and Related Phase Change Materials (PCMs) / Jan Leys, Patricia Losada-Pérez, Christ Glorieux and Jan Thoen -- Enthalpy Changes on Solution of Gases in Liquids / Emmerich Wilhelm and Rubin Battino -- Titration Calorimetry and Differential Scanning Calorimetry of Lipid-Protein Interactions / Joachim Seelig -- Biocalorimetry : Differential Scanning Calorimetry of Protein Solutions / Pedro L. Mateo, Francisco Conejero-Lara, Irene Luque, Javier Ruiz-Sanz, Jose C. Martinez, Ana I. Azuaga and Eva S. Cobos -- Biocalorimetry of Plants, Insects and Soil Microorganisms / Lee D. Hansen, Amaia Nogales, Birgit Arnholdt-Schmitt, Lisa G. Neven and Nieves Barros -- Temperature Dependence of the Enthalpy Near Critical and Tricritical Second-order and Weakly First-order Phase Transitions / Patricia Losada-Pérez, Jan Leys, George Cordoyiannis, Christ Glorieux and Jan Thoen -- Yang-Yand Critical Anomaly / Ilmutdin M. Abdulagatov, Joseph W. Magee, Nikolai G. Polikhronidi and Rabiyat G. Batyrova -- Internal Pressure and Internal Energy of Saturated and Compressed Phases / Ilmutdin M. Abdulagatov, Joseph W. Magee, Nikolai G. Polikhronidi and Rabiyat G. Batyrova -- Solubility Parameters : A Brief Review / Emmerich Wilhelm -- Internal Pressure of Liquids : A Review / Yizhak Marcus -- Excess Enthalpies for Binary Systems Containing Ionic Liquids / Jacobo Troncoso -- Electrolyte Solutions : Standard State Partial Molar Enthalpies of Aqueous Solution up to High Temperatures / Essmaiil Djamali and Walter G. Chapman -- Correlation and Prediction of Excess Molar Enthalpies Using DISQUAC / Juan Antonio González, Isaías García de la Fuente and José Carlos Cobos -- Molecular Thermodynamics of Solutions / Ioannis Tsivintzelis and Costas Panayiotou -- Measurement of Heat Capacity and Phase Transition Enthalpy for Condensed Materials by Precision Adiabatic Calorimetry / Z.C. Tan, Q. Shi, Z.D. Nan and Y.Y. Di
"Containing the very latest information on all aspects of enthalpy and internal energy as related to fluids, this book brings all the information into one authoritative survey in this well-defined field of chemical thermodynamics."--Page 4 of cover
