Handbook of food bioengineering / edited by Alexandru Mihai Grumezescu, Alina Maria Holban ; volume 19: Role of materials science in food bioengineering
The Role of Materials Science in Food Bioengineering, Volume 19 in the Handbook of Food Bioengineering, presents an up-to-date review of the most recent advances in materials science, further demonstrating its broad applications in the food industry and bioengineering. Many types of materials are described, with their impact in food design discussed. The book provides insights into a range of new possibilities for the use of materials and new technologies in the field of food bioengineering. This is an essential reference on bioengineering that is not only ideal for researchers, scientists and food manufacturers, but also for students and educators.
1. New Trends in Food Technology for Green Recovery of Bioactive Compounds from Plant Materials Jana Šic Žlabur, Sandra Voca, Mladen Brncic, Suzana Rimac-Brncic 2. Different Bioengineering Approaches on Production of Bioflavor Compounds Muge Isleten Hosoglu, Onur Guneser, Yonca Karagul Yuceer 3. Biocompatibility and toxicity of allotropic forms of carbon in food packaging Katarzyna Mitura and Pawel K. Zarzycki 4. Fabrication of functional electrospun nanostructures for food applications Yun Ping Neo, Sudip Ray, Conrad O. Perera 5. Bioactive peptides as functional food ingredients Sonia Esther Barberis, Anabella Lucía Origone, Mauricio Omar Adaro and Grisel Bersi 6. Potential applications of cyclodextrin inclusion complexes, liposomes, and drug-in-cyclodextrin-in-liposome in food industry and packaging Carine Sebaaly, Catherine Charcosset, Sophie Fourmentin, Hélène Greige-Gerges 7. Coacervation technique as an encapsualtion and delivery tool for hydrophobic biofunctional compounds Bo Wang, Taiwo Akanbi, Dominic Agyei, Brendan Holland, Colin J. Barrow 8. Food hydrocolloids as matrices for edible packaging applications Alberto Jiménez, Raquel Requena, María Vargas, Lorena Atarés, Amparo Chiralt 9. Probiotic and Synbiotic Yogurt Production Using Free or Alginate/Resistant Starch Microencapsulated Lactobacillus plantarum Yahya Shafiei 10. Nutraceutical Formulation Strategies to Enhance the Bioavailability and Efficiency: An overview Ali Asghar, Muhammad Atif Randhawa, Muhammad Musaddaq Masood, Abdullah, Muhammad Asim Irshad 11. Health Perspectives of an Isoflavonoid-Genistein and its Quantification in Economically Important Plants Ashwini Malla and Sathishkumar Ramalingam 12. Microbial polyamino acids: an overview for commercial attention Sandip B. Bankar, Pranhita R. Nimbalkar, Prakash V. Chavan, Rekha S. Singhal 13. Promising functional lipids for therapeutic applications Debjyoti Paul, Tanmoy Kumar Dey Amrita Chakraborty and Pubali Dhar 14. Status and Future Prospects of Fructooligosaccharides as Nutraceuticals C. Ganesh Kumar, Sarada Sripada and Yedla Poornachandra 15. Food Materials Science in Egg Powder Industry Mian Kamran Sharif, Makkia Saleem and Komal Javed
