Introduction to optimum design
Introduction to Optimum Design is the most widely used textbook in engineering optimization and optimum design courses. It is intended for use in a first course on engineering design and optimization at the undergraduate or graduate level within engineering departments of all disciplines, but primarily within mechanical, aerospace and civil engineering. The basic approach of the text is to describe an organized approach to engineering design optimization in a rigorous yet simplified manner, illustrate various concepts and procedures with simple examples, and demonstrate their applicability to engineering design problems. Formulation of a design problem as an optimization problem is emphasized and illustrated throughout the text. Excel and MATLAB are featured throughout as learning and teaching aids. The 3rd edition has been reorganized and enhanced with new material, making the book even more appealing to instructors regardless of the level they teach the course. Examples include moving the introductory chapter on Excel and MATLAB closer to the front of the book and adding an early chapter on practical design examples for the more introductory course, and including a final chapter on advanced topics for the purely graduate level course. Basic concepts of optimality conditions and numerical methods are described with simple and practical examples, making the material highly teachable and learnable. Applications of the methods for structural, mechanical, aerospace and industrial engineering problems. Introduction to MATLAB Optimization Toolbox. Optimum design with Excel Solver has been expanded into a full chapter. Practical design examples introduce students to usage of optimization methods early in the book. New material on several advanced optimum design topics serves the needs of instructors teaching more advanced courses
Introduction to Design Optimization Optimum Design Problem Formulation Graphical Optimization and Basic Concepts Optimum Design Concepts: Optimality Conditions More on Optimum Design Concepts: Optimality Conditions Optimum Design with Excel Solver Optimum Design with MATLAB Linear Programming Methods for Optimum Design More on Linear Programming Methods for Optimum Design Numerical Methods for Unconstrained Optimum Design More on Numerical Methods for Unconstrained Optimum Design Numerical Methods for Constrained Optimum Design More on Numerical Methods for Constrained Optimum Design Practical Applications of Optimization Discrete Variable Optimum Design Concepts and Methods Genetic Algorithms for Optimum Design Multi-Objective Optimum Design Concepts and Methods Global Optimization Concepts and Methods Nature-Inspired Search Methods Additional Topics on Optimum Design Appendices
