Building the Infrastructure for Cloud Security : A Solutions view
For cloud users and providers alike, security is an everyday concern, yet there are very few books covering cloud security as a main subject. This book will help address this information gap from an Information Technology solution and usage-centric view of cloud infrastructure security. The book highlights the fundamental technology components necessary to build and enable trusted clouds. Here also is an explanation of the security and compliance challenges organizations face as they migrate mission-critical applications to the cloud, and how trusted clouds, that have their integrity rooted in hardware, can address these challenges. This book provides: Use cases and solution reference architectures to enable infrastructure integrity and the creation of trusted pools leveraging Intel Trusted Execution Technology (TXT). Trusted geo-location management in the cloud, enabling workload and data location compliance and boundary control usages in the cloud. OpenStack-based reference architecture of tenant-controlled virtual machine and workload protection in the cloud. A reference design to enable secure hybrid clouds for a cloud bursting use case, providing infrastructure visibility and control to organizations. "A valuable guide to the next generation of cloud security and hardware based root of trust. More than an explanation of the what and how, is the explanation of why. And why you can’t afford to ignore it!" -Vince Lubsey, Vice President, Product Development, Virtustream Inc. " Raghu provides a valuable reference for the new 'inside out' approach, where trust in hardware, software, and privileged users is never assumed-but instead measured, attested, and limited according to least privilege principles." -John Skinner, Vice President, HyTrust Inc. "Traditional parameter based defenses are in sufficient in the cloud. Raghu's book addresses this problem head-on by highlighting unique usage models to enable trusted infrastructure in this open environment. A must read if you are exposed in cloud." -Nikhil Sharma, Sr. Director of Cloud Solutions, Office of CTO, EMC Corporation
