Pro HTML5 with CSS, JavaScript, and Multimedia : Complete Website Development and Best Practices
Part 1: HTML5 Technologies -- 1: Hypertext Markup Language -- 2: Cascading Style Sheets -- 3: JavaScript Essentials -- Part 2: HTML -- 4: Structural HTML Elements -- 5: Phrasing HTML Elements -- 6: Table HTML Elements -- 7: Embedded HTML Elements -- 8: HTML Form Elements -- Part 3: CSS -- 9: CSS Selectors -- 10: Positioning Content -- 11: Text Styles -- 12: Borders and Backgrounds -- 13: Styling Tables -- 14: Flexbox -- 15: Animation and Transforms -- Part 4: JavaScript -- 16: Browser Environment -- 17: Window Object -- 18: DOM Elements -- 19: Dynamic Styling -- 20: Events -- Part 5: Advanced Applications -- 21: Audio and Video -- 22: Scalable Vector Graphics -- 23: Canvas -- 24: Drag and Drop -- 25: Indexed DB -- 26: Geolocation and Mapping -- 27: Appendix A: AJAX -- 28. Appendix B: Drag and Drop Source Code -- 29. Appendix C: References
Learn broad and thorough coverage of HTML5, including markup, styling, and scripting. Accessible for both the beginner and expert, with lots of practical examples and best practice insights. You'll quickly understand the new HTML markup elements and when to use them, and then apply the new and improved CSS features to create amazing web pages. Learn how to use JavaScript to create web applications that are dynamic and interactive. With Pro HTML5 with CSS, JavaScript, and Multimedia, you'll learn both the fundamentals of client-side scripting as well as explore the immense functionality available to you as browser vendors converge on the HTML5 standards. This book is full of practical examples and advanced content, including audio, video, SVG, and drag and drop capabilities. Using practical hands-on demonstrations you will learn all of the really cool features that you can start using now. HTML5 promises to revolutionize the way websites are developed with an impressive set of built-in client-side features. It as a preferred development language in Windows 10, and along with growing support from the major browser vendors, HTML5 is likely to become the de facto standard for all future web development. What You Will Learn: How, and when, to use all the HTML5 markup tags Use CSS3 features to create dramatic websites Master the JavaScript fundamentals and advanced features Use canvas and SVG to build some amazing web pages Leverage the native browser support for Geolocation, IndexedDB, and drag and drop capabilitiesvolutionize the way websites are developed with an impressive set of built-in client-side features. It as a preferred development language in Windows 10, and along with growing support from the major browser vendors, HTML5 is likely to become the de facto standard for all future web development. What You Will Learn: How, and when, to use all the HTML5 markup tags Use the new CSS3 features to create dramatic websites Master the JavaScript fundamentals and advanced features Use canvas and SVG to build some amazing web pages Leverage the native browser support for Geolocation, IndexedDB, and drag and drop capabilities
