Supporting teacher wellbeing : a practical guide for primary teachers and school leaders
"All teachers are in the unique position of influencing the future happiness and success of the next generation, therefore it is crucial that the wellbeing of teachers is not overlooked. This proative guide will empower school staff; it will enlighten and equip them with essential knowledge about wellbeing and remind them to never neglect their own health. It encourages a pro-active approach to holistic wellbeing and deals with a serious topic in a humorous and lighthearted way. Structured as an easy-to-read guide, the chapters offer hands-on tips on how and why to support teacher wellbeing and advice on how to manage the increasing demands of planning, assessment and marking. What's more, it emphasises the importance of sustaining a work-life balance, using mindfulness to relax and gain perspective, healthy eating, incorporating exercise into your schedule and maintaining a sense of calm in the classroom. This book:  Includes personal stories that encompass the real experiences of early career teachers, experienced teachers, senior leaders and trainee teachers.  Delves into important topics such as stress, burnout, work-life balance, anxiety, and controlling the mind.  Highlights how to increase self-esteem, confidence and eradicate perfectionism at work.  Suggests practical strategies related to workload reduction, peer support and a variety of self-care techniques. Written by a Primary Education lecturer with over twenty years of experience teaching in primary schools, this book is an essential resource for trainee teachers, early career teachers, experienced teachers and school leaders alike"--
Introduction -- Why should teachers support their mental health and wellbeing? -- What do you need to know about wellbeing? -- Which work-life balance strategies best support wellbeing? -- What other strategies support teacher wellbeing? -- How can you plan for sustained teacher wellbeing? -- What is my personal plan for wellbeing?
