IoT Solutions in Microsoft's Azure IoT Suite : Data Acquisition and Analysis in the Real World
Introduction.- -- Part I: Getting Started -- 1. The World of Big Data and IoT -- 2. Generating Data with Devices.- -- Part II: Data on the Move -- 3. Azure IoT Hub -- 4. Ingesting Data with Azure IoT Hub -- 5. Azure Stream Analytics -- 6. Real-Time Data Streaming -- 7. Azure Data Factory -- 8. Integrating Data Between Data Stores Using Azure Data Factory.- -- Part III: Data at Rest -- 9. Azure Data Lake Store -- 10. Azure Data Lake Analytics -- 11. U-SQL -- 12. Azure HDInsight -- 13. Real-time Insights and Reporting on Big Data -- 14. Azure Machine Learning.- -- Part IV: More on Cortana Intelligence -- 15. Azure Data Catalog -- 16. Azure Event Hubs
Collect and analyze sensor and usage data from Internet of Things applications with Microsoft Azure IoT Suite. Internet connectivity to everyday devices such as light bulbs, thermostats, and even voice-command devices such as Google Home and Amazon.com's Alexa is exploding. These connected devices and their respective applications generate large amounts of data that can be mined to enhance user-friendliness and make predictions about what a user might be likely to do next. Microsoft's Azure IoT Suite is a cloud-based platform that is ideal for collecting data from connected devices. You'll learn about data acquisition and analysis, including real-time analysis. Real-world examples are provided to teach you to detect anomalous patterns in your data that might lead to business advantage. We live in a time when the amount of data being generated and stored is growing at an exponential rate. Understanding and getting real-time insight into these data is critical to business. IoT Solutions in Microsoft's Azure IoT Suite walks you through a complete, end-to-end journey of how to collect and store data from Internet-connected devices. You'll learn to analyze the data and to apply your results to solving real-world problems. Your customers will benefit from the increasingly capable and reliable applications that you'll be able to deploy to them. You and your business will benefit from the gains in insight and knowledge that can be applied to delight your customers and increase the value from their business. What You Will Learn Go through data generation, collection, and storage from sensors and devices, both relational and non-relational Understand, from end to end, Microsoft’s analytic services and where they fit into the analytical ecosystem Look at the Internet of your things and find ways to discover and draw on the insights your data can provide Understand Microsoft's IoT technologies and services, and stitch them together for business insight and advantage
