Regenerative urban development, climate change and the common good
"This volume focuses on the theory and practice of the regenerative development paradigm, which is rapidly displacing sustainability as the most fertile ground for climate change adaptation research. This book brings together key thinkers in this field to develop a meaningful synthesis between the existing practice of regenerative development and the input of scholars in the social sciences. It begins by providing an expert introduction to the history, principles and practices of regenerative development, before going on to present a thorough theoretical examination by known theorists from disciplines including sociology, geography and ethics. A section on regenerative development practices illustrates the need to significantly advance our understanding of how urbanization, climate change and inequality interact at every scale of development work. Finally, the book ends with a serious consideration of the ways in which integrated systems thinking in higher education could result in a curriculum for the next generation of regenerative development professionals. Regenerative Urban Development, Climate Change and the Common Good will be of great interest to students, scholars and practitioners of regenerative development, climate change, urban planning and public policy"--
Regenerative development : urbanization, climate change & the common good / Beth Schaefer Caniglia, Beatrice Frank, Eugene Wilkerson, Kenneth S. Sagendorf and John L Knott, Jr. -- The regenerative paradigm : discerning how we make sense of the world / Carol Sanford -- The centrality of the systems approach : regenerative development, resilience and sustainability / Beth Schaefer Caniglia -- Toward a regenerative psychology of place / Nicholas S. Mang -- Regenerative development and environmental justice / David N. Pellow -- Governing regenerative development / Thomas Dietz -- Regenerative development and environmental ethics : healing the mismatch between culture and the environment in the third millennium / Thomas J. Burns, Tom W. Boyd and Carrie M. Leslie -- Regenerative economics / L. Hunter Lovins -- CityCrafting : evolution of regenerative development and regenerative development in practice / John L. Knott, Jr. -- Rethinking memorial public spaces as regenerative through a dynamic landscape assessment plan approach / Rebecca Sheehan -- Integrating social science and positive psychology into regenerative development and design processes / Jennifer Eileen Cross and Josette M. Plaut -- Workforce development : a regenerative perspective / Eugene Wilkerson and Allison Dake -- Education for regeneration / Kenneth S. Sagendorf and Barbara J. Jackson -- Conclusion / Beth Schaefer Caniglia, Beatrice Frank, Kenneth S. Sagendorf and John L Knott, Jr.
