Public policy, productive and unproductive entrepreneurship : the impact of public policy on entrepreneurial outcomes
This exciting book provides fresh insight into how institutions, governments, regulations, economic freedom and morality impact entrepreneurship and public policy. Each chapter contains a rigorous analysis of the consequences of public policy and the effects of institutional decisions on the productivity of entrepreneurs. Expert contributors highlight the importance of institutions for economic outcomes while focusing specifically on the impact of public policy. One standout feature is the presentation of concrete examples regarding the role of institutions as well a clear analysis of entrepreneurship research. The editors also examine and compare productive versus unproductive public policies. Some of the conclusions made within this book include: - Successful recruitment spending by states creates an incentive for unproductive entrepreneurs to seek economic rents - Regulatory measures impact firms in a continuous and evolving fashion - Economic actions and morality may converge given certain conditions - More economic freedom in a given country is associated with greater levels of entrepreneurship Public Policy, Productive and Unproductive Entrepreneurship will help policymakers direct their efforts at creating a positive economic environment for entrepreneurs to flourish and give scholars a better understanding of the role policy plays in entrepreneurial activity. Its practical application for academic research will be great for students, helping them to connect theoretical economic fundamentals to real and familiar economic outcomes
Contents: Foreword / Russell S. Sobel -- 1. Introduction / Gregory M. Randolph -- 2. Creating the environment for entrepreneurship through economic freedom / Joshua C. Hall, Robert A. Lawson, and Saurav Roychoudhury -- 3. The role of public policy in entrepreneurship and migration / Pavel A. Yakovlev and Saurav Roychoudhury -- 4. Regulation and the entrepreneur / James Fetzner and Gregory M. Randolph -- 5. Politics and entrepreneurship / Matt E. Ryan -- 6. The negative impact of recruitment policies for the unproductive entrepreneur / Michael T. Tasto -- 7. Testimony before us house committee on financial services: domestic monetary policy and technology subcommittee / Peter G. Klein -- 8. The economics of entrepreneurship: to inform an economic and moral perspective / Robert F. Salvino and Michael Latta -- 9. Informal institutions, public policy, and entrepreneurship / Gregory M. Randolph and Marek Rivero -- Index.
