Precipitation Partitioning by Vegetation : a Global Synthesis
Foreword -- Chapter 1. History of canopy precipitation partitioning -- Chapter 2. Measurement of canopy interception -- Chapter 3. Measurement of throughfall -- Chapter 4. Measurement of stemflow -- Chapter 5. Residence time of precipitation entrained as throughfall and stemflow -- Chapter 6. Dissolved organic matter -- Chapter 7. Dissolved inorganic solutes -- Chapter 8. Isotopic composition -- Chapter 9. Particulate matter (including microbes) -- Chapter 10. Modelling of precipitation partitioning -- Chapter 11. Modelling of canopy exchange -- Chapter 12. Differences among precipitation types (Rain, fog, snow, rime) -- Chapter 13. Differences between plant functional types -- Chapter 14. Differences with stand age and management -- Chapter 15. Global patterns in precipitation partitioning -- Chapter 16. Relevance of precipitation partitioning to the global climate system -- Chapter 17. Precipitation recycling -- Chapter 18. Arboreal epiphytes and hemiparasites -- Chapter 19. Treehole ecosystems -- Chapter 20. Soil erosion -- Chapter 21. Soil physicochemical properties -- Chapter 22. Soil microbial community structure and function -- Chapter 23. Streams -- Chapter 24. Soil and groundwater -- Chapter 25. Reflections & future directions: Research opportunities in canopy precipitation partitioning -- Index.
This book presents research on precipitation partitioning processes in vegetated ecosystems, putting them into a global context. It describes the processes by which meteoric water comes into contact with the vegetation's canopy, typically the first surface contact of precipitation on land. It also discusses how precipitation partitioning by vegetation impacts the amount, patterning, and chemistry of water reaching the surface, as well as the amount and timing of evaporative return to the atmosphere. Although this process has been extensively studied, this is the first review of the global literature on the partitioning of precipitation by forests, shrubs, crops, grasslands and other less-studies plant types. The authors offer global contextualization combined with a detailed discussion of the impacts for the climate and terrestrial ecohydrological systems. As such, this comprehensive overview is a valuable reference tool for a wide range of specialists and students in the fields of geoscience and the environment.
