Nanotechnology and functional foods : effective delivery of bioactive ingredients
"This book explores the most up to date nano- and micro-delivery systems for food ingredients, including nanoemulsions, stabilized nanoemulsions, solid lipid nanoparticles, and polymeric nanoparticles. Chapters explore the different types of delivery systems, their properties and interactions with other food components, targeting mechanisms, and safety to the human body. Industrial and societal implications of use of nano- and micro-delivery systems for bioactive ingredients in functional foods are also covered. Continuing innovation in nano and micro-delivery systems for bioactives will underpin expanded consumer choice in functional foods and growth strategies for food companies in the 21st century. This book aims to provide the reader with the most up-to-date knowledge of modern delivery systems, options available, and the basic science critical to success in the marketplace.Topics to be covered include: Introduction. Importance of novel delivery systems for improved stability, controlled release, and targeting of bioactive components. Overview of different delivery systems to be used in functional foods.  Bioactive food ingredients. Definition, health benefits, classification of bioactives. Challenges associated with free-form delivery of bioactives (i.e. bioavailability, stability, etc)  Delivery system characteristics. Properties: Entrapment efficiency, size, release kinetics, charge, stability, bioavailability. Analysis methods: TEM, SEM, AFM, DLS, HPLC, bioavailability methods (cell and animal models). Delivery system interaction with other food components. Targeting strategies. Delivery system interaction with biological systems and safety.  Delivery methods with case studies. Emulsions and double layer-emulsions with applications. Polymeric nanoparticles  with applications. Coacervates (with example fish oil). Solid lipid nanoparticles with applications. Liposomes. Delivery from packaging.Probiotics delivery systems. Dendrimers as nanocarrier for antibacterial peptide. Multifunctional food grade nanofibers.  Industrial and societal implications. Safety of nanomaterials (high bioavailability, material selection, societal implications). Alteration of final product properties (sensorial properties, texture, color). Regulation for food nanotech. Product development and intellectual property.  Future trends. Vision for nano and colloidal systems for delivery of bioactives.  "--
"This book explores the most up to date nano- and micro-delivery systems for food ingredients, including nanoemulsions, stabilized nanoemulsions, solid lipid nanoparticles, and polymeric nanoparticles"--
