Solar cells : materials, manufacture and operation
The capture and use of solar energy has been growing for many years, but only in recent times have advances in design and manufacture allowed us to see the incorporation of solar energy as a significant player in the renewable energy arena. Solar cells are at the heart of any photovoltaic system and in this book the various types are described and their characteristics reviewed. Going beyond materials, design and function, Solar Cells also covers their testing, monitoring and calibration thus providing a comprehensive account of current activity in this important field of research and industry. Solar Cells has been abstracted from the recent Practical Handbook of Photovoltaics by the same editors (ISBN 185617 3909. 2003: Elsevier) Internationally-respected contributors from industry and academia Abstracted from The Practical Handbook of Photovoltaics' by the same Editors A comprehensive source-book on all aspects of solar cells
Principles of solar cell operation -- Ideal efficiencies / Peter T. Landsberg and Tom Markvart -- Crystalline silicon :, anufacture and properties / Francesca Ferrazza -- Low cost industrial technologies of crystalline silicon solar cells / Jozef Szlufcik, Guido Agostinelli, Filip Duerinckx, Emmanuel Van Kerschaver and Guy Beaucarne -- Thin silicon solar cells / Michael Mauk, Paul Sims, James Rand and Allen Barnett -- Characterisation and diagnosis of silicon wafers and devices / Andrés Cuevas and Ronald A. Sinton -- High-efficiency silicon solar cell concepts / Martin A. Green -- Amorphous silicon solar cells / David E. Carlson and Christopher R. Wronski -- Macrocrystalline silicon solar cells / Kenji Yamamoto -- Cadmium telluride thin-film PV modules / Dieter Bonnet -- Cu(In, Ga)Se2 thin-film solar cells / U. Rau and H.W. Schock -- GaAs and high-efficiency space cells / V.M. Andreev -- High-efficiency concentrator silicon solar cells / Pierre J. Verlinden -- Photoelectrochemical solar cells / A.J. McEvoy -- Organic and plastic solar cells / Jenny Nelson -- Standards, calibration and testing of PV modules and solar cells / Carl R. Osterwald -- Calibration, testing and monitoring of space solar cells / Emilio Fernandez Lisbona
