Waves and Structures in Nonlinear Nondispersive Media : General Theory and Applications to Nonlinear Acoustics
Part I. Foundations of The Theory of Waves in Nondispersive. Nonlinear Equations of The First Order -- Generalized Solutions of Nonlinear Equation -- Nonlinear Equations of The Second Order -- Field Evolution Governed by Burgers Equation -- Evolution of A Noise Field Governed -- Multi-dimensional Nonlinear Equations -- Part II. Mathematical Models and Physical Phenomena in Nonlinear Acoustics. Model Equations and Methods Of Finding of Their Exact Solutions -- Types of Acoustic Nonlinearities and Methods of Nonlinear Acoustic Diagnostics -- Nonlinear Sawtooth Waves -- Self-Action of Spatially Bounded Waves Containing Shock Fronts -- Nonlinear Standing Waves, Resonance Phenomena and Frequency Characteristics of Distributed Systems
"Waves and Structures in Nonlinear Nondispersive Media: General Theory and Applications to Nonlinear Acoustics” is devoted completely to nonlinear structures. The general theory is given here in parallel with mathematical models. Many concrete examples illustrate the general analysis of Part I. Part II is devoted to applications to nonlinear acoustics, including specific nonlinear models and exact solutions, physical mechanisms of nonlinearity, sawtooth-shaped wave propagation, self-action phenomena, nonlinear resonances and engineering application (medicine, nondestructive testing, geophysics, etc.). This book is designed for graduate and postgraduate students studying the theory of nonlinear waves of various physical nature. It may also be useful as a handbook for engineers and researchers who encounter the necessity of taking nonlinear wave effects into account of their work. Dr. Gurbatov S.N. is the head of Department, and Vice Rector for Research of Nizhny Novgorod State University. Dr. Rudenko O.V. is the Full member of Russian Academy of Sciences, the head of Department at Moscow University and Professor at BTH (Sweden). Dr. Saichev A.I. is the Professor at the Faculty of Radiophysics of Nizhny Novgorod State University, Professor of ETH Zürich
