Information security management systems : a novel framework and software as a tool for compliance with information security standard
This new volume, Information Security Management Systems: A Novel Framework and Software as a Tool for Compliance with Information Security Standard, looks at information security management system standards, risk management associated with information security, and information security awareness within an organization. The authors aim to improve the overall ability of organizations to participate, forecast, and actively assess their information security circumstances. It is important to note that securing and keeping information from parties who do not have authorization to access such information is an extremely important issue. To address this issue, it is essential for an organization to implement an ISMS standard such as ISO 27001 to address the issue comprehensively. The authors of this new volume have constructed a novel security framework (ISF) and subsequently used this framework to develop software called Integrated Solution Modeling (ISM), a semi-automated system that will greatly help organizations comply with ISO 27001 faster and cheaper than other existing methods. In addition, ISM does not only help organizations to assess their information security compliance with ISO 27001, but it can also be used as a monitoring tool, helping organizations monitor the security statuses of their information resources as well as monitor potential threats. ISM is developed to provide solutions to solve obstacles, difficulties, and expected challenges associated with literacy and governance of ISO 27001. It also functions to assess the RISC level of organizations towards compliance with ISO 27001. The information provide here will act as blueprints for managing information security within business organizations. It will allow users to compare and benchmark their own processes and practices against these results shown and come up with new, critical insights to aid them in information security standard (ISO 27001) adoption."
Introduction -- Literature review -- Methodology -- Integrated solution framework -- Software development -- Testing the software : RISC investigation and SP/SQ measurement -- Conclusions and recommendations.
