Cities and sustainable technology transitions : leadership, innovation and adoption
Cities are undoubted key players in technology creation and adoption for sustainable transitions. This book addresses both the active and passive roles of cities in technology innovation, commercialisation, mass-production and adoption. In particular, it examines elements of three socio-technical systems, energy, transport and healthcare. The authors investigate cities in Europe, Asia and North America, providing an in depth understanding of the differences in leadership roles that cities adopt across the globe. The book breaks new ground in the analysis of topical issues such as local 'cradle' conditions, incentive schemes, niche-development, living labs, impact bonds, grass-roots intermediation and adaptive policy making. Researchers and students involved in the urban studies, socio-technical transitions and sustainability would greatly benefit from reading this book. The variety of practical examples also makes this book an important tool for city policy makers, as well as public policy and public sector scholars
Contents: Part I Introduction -- 1. Transitions in socio-technical systems and challenges of city leadership / Marina van Geenhuizen, Adam Holbrook and Mozhdeh Taheri -- Part II Assets and networks in cities -- Energy -- 2. Cities and photovoltaic inventions: global leaders over time / Pieter Stek -- 3. University spin-offs' steps in commercialization of sustainable energy inventions in Northwest Europe / Razie Nejabat, Mozhdeh Taheri, Victor Scholten and Marina van Geenhuizen -- 4. 'Solar Cities' in China as leaders in photovoltaic manufacturing / Qing Ye and Marina van Geenhuizen -- 5. Urban Innovation or rural dedication?: contrasts in socio-technical niche development in photovoltaics in Germany / Martina Fromhold-Eisebith and Ulrich Dewald -- 6. Vancouver's fuel cell cluster: new opportunities or a genteel decline? / Claudia Díaz-Perez, Brian Wixted and Adam Holbrook -- Transport -- 7. Cities and adoption of Innovation in passenger mobility / Hans Jeekel -- 8. Seaport development and accelerating energy transition. Could Rotterdam and Shanghai take on a leadership role? / Marina van Geenhuizen, Lili Song and Wim Ravesteijn -- Health -- 9. Performance of university spin-off firms in commercialization of medical technology / Mozhdeh Taheri and Marina van Geenhuizen -- 10. Adoption of e-health in hospitals and in cities: a myriad of influences / Sander Faber and Marina van Geenhuizen -- Part III Governance and policy approaches -- 11. Electric vehicles and charging infrastructure: adaptive policy making in cities / Freek Kuipéri, Marina van Geenhuizen and Jan-Anne Annema -- 12. Urban intermediaries and the governance of the energy transition, two case studies in Amsterdam / Marloes Dignum -- 13. Living labs in health care innovation: critical factors and potential roles of city government / Marina van Geenhuizen and Nick Guldemond -- 14. Enhancing public sector innovation: living lab case studies on well-being services in Lahti, Finland / Suvi Konsti-Laakso, Satu Pekkarinen and Helinä Melkas -- 15. Health Impact Bonds as a novel financial arrangement in healthcare transition / Stephan Diek, Marina van Geenhuizen and Bart van Hulst -- 16. Role of cities and governance in sustainability transitions: challenges in leadership / Marina van Geenhuizen and Adam Holbrook -- Index.
