The NMR Probe of High-Tc Materials and Correlated Electron Systems
Introduction -- NMR Studies of Metals, Metallic Compounds, and Superconductors -- The Superconducting Cuprates: Preliminary Steps in their Investigation via NMR -- Pseudogap Effects in Cuprate NMR Studies -- Relaxation Models for Cuprate NMR -- Dynamic Susceptibility Studies for the Cuprates -- Heavy Fermion Systems -- Kondo Lattices -- Quantum Critical Points -- Unconventional Superconductivity.-Actinide Oxides -- Appendices -- Index.
This new edition updates readers in three areas of NMR studies, namely, recent developments in high-Tc materials, heavy fermion systems and actinide oxides are presented.  The NMR probe has yielded a vast array of data for solid state materials, corresponding to different compounds, ionic sites, and nuclear species, as well as to a wide variety of experimental conditions. The last two parts of the book are completely new in this edition, while the first part has seen major updates. This edition features the latest developments for high-Tc materials, especially the advances in the area of pseudogap studies are reviewed.  An in depth overview of heavy fermion systems is presented in the second part,  notably Kondo lattices, quantum critical points and unconventional superconductivity are areas of intense research recently and are covered extensively. Finally, valuable information from NMR studies with actinide oxides will be provided. Ongoing analysis and discussion of NMR data have resulted in a wealth of important insights into the physics of these exotic systems. The aims of this monograph are manifold. First, it reviews NMR methodology as it has been applied to the different studies. This is addressed to NMR practitioners and to physics laypersons alike. Next, it presents a review of NMR measurements and the wide variety of phenomena which they represent. The third phase is to recount the theoretical model calculations and other proposals which have been put forward to account for these data.
