Design and deployment of small cell networks
Mobility performance optimization for 3GPP LTE HetNets / Kathiravetpillai Sivanesan, Jialin Zou, Subramanian Vasudevan and Sudeep Palat -- Design and performance analysis of multi-radio small cell networks / Nageen Himayat, Shu-ping Yeh, Shilpa Talwar, Mikhail Gerasimenko, Sergey Andreev and Yevgeni Koucheryavy -- Dynamic TDD small cell management / Cheng-Chih Chao, Yi-Ting Lin and Hung-Yu Wei -- 3GPP RAN standards for small cells / Weimin Xiao, Jialing Liu and Anthony C. K. Soong -- Dense networks of small cells / Jialing Liu, Weimin Xiao and Anthony C. K. Soong -- Traffic offloading scenarios for heterogeneous networks / Adrian Kliks, Nikos Dimitriou, Andreas Zalonis and Oliver Holland -- Required number of small-cell access points in heterogeneous wireless networks / S. Alireza Banani, Andrew Eckford and Raviraj Adve -- Small cell deployments: system scenarios, performance and analysis / Mark C. Reed and Jackson Wang -- Temporary cognitive small cell networks for rapid and emergency deployments / Akram Al-Hourani, Sithamparanathan Kandeepan and Senthuran Arunthavanathan -- Long-term evolution (LTE) and LTE-advanced activities in small cell networks / Qi Jiang, Jinsong Wu, Lu Zhang and Shengjie Zhao -- Game theory and learning techniques for self-organization in small cell networks / Prabodini Semasinghe, Kun Zhu, Ekram Hossain and Alagan Anpalagan -- Energy efficient strategies with BS sleep mode in green small cell networks / Hong Zhang and Jun Cai --  Mobility management in small cell heterogeneous networks / Peter Legg and Xavier Gelabert -- The art of deploying small cells: field trial experiments, system design, performance prediction and deployment feasibility / Doru Calin, Aliye Ozge Kaya, Amine Abouliatim, Goncalo Ferrada and Ionel Petrut -- Centralized self-optimization of interference management in LTE-A HetNets / Yasir Khan, Berna Sayrac and Eric Moulines -- Self organized ICIC for SCN  / Lorenza Giupponi, Ali Imran and Ana Maria Galindo --  Large scale deployment and scalability / Iris Barcia, Simon Chapman and Chris Beale -- Energy efficient heterogeneous networks /  Y. Qi, M. A. Imran, M. Z. Shakir and K. A. Qaraqe -- Time and frequency domain e-ICIC with single and multiflow carrier aggregation in HetNets / Meryem Simsek, Mehdi Bennis and Ismail Guvenc.
