Radiation in Bioanalysis : Spectroscopic Techniques and Theoretical Methods
High-Resolution Electron Energy Loss Spectroscopy: Absolute cross section measurements for low energy electron scattering from biomolecules (V. Lemelin and L. Sanche) -- Synchrotron Radiation UV-VUV photoabsorption of gas phase molecules (Denis Duflot, Søren Vrønning Hoffmann, Nykola C. Jones, Paulo Limão-Vieira) -- Fluorescence spectroscopy (Artur J. Moro and João Carlos Lima) -- Raman biospectroscopy and imaging (Smilja Todorovic) -- Circular Dichroism and Synchrotron radiation circular dichroism Applications to Biomaterials (Rohanah Hussain, Tamás Jávorfi, Charlotte S Hughes and Giuliano Siligardi) -- Dynamic Light Scattering (DLS) (Sven Falke and Christian Betzel) -- Pulsed Electron-Electron Double Resonance (PELDOR) and Electron Spin Echo Envelope Modulation (ESEEM) spectroscopy in Bioanalysis (Bode, B. E., and Norman D. G. [1]) -- Mössbauer Spectroscopy (João Carlos Waerenborgh, Pedro Tavares, and Alice S. Pereira) -- Principles of Nuclear Magnetic Resonance and Selected Biological Applications (Carlos A. Salgueiro, Joana M. Dantas and Leonor Morgado) -- Near Edge X-ray Absorption Fine Structure (NEXAFS) Spectroscopy of molecules of biological interest: from chemically pure to complex samples (G. Gerson. B. de Souza and Joselaine C. Gonzalez) -- Electron impact spectroscopy (Alexander Dorn) -- Charge Transfer Processes in Key Biological Systems (Filipe Ferreira da Silva, Mónica Mendes, Gustavo García and Paulo Limão-Vieira) -- Fast Kinetics - Stopped-flow and Rapid Freeze-Quench (Pedro Tavares, and Alice S. Pereira) -- Radiobiological effects induced by x-ray (LINAC) irradiation: experiments and modelling (A. Traoré-Dubuis, L. Ellis-Gibbings, K. Krupa, A. I. Lozano, R. Colmenares, A. Muñoz, J. C. Oller, F. Blanco, A. García Grande, M. J. Coronado, S. Rosado, E. Ramil, L. Núñez, P. Limão-Vieira and G. García Gómez-Tejedor)
This book describes the state of the art across the broad range of spectroscopic techniques used in the study of biological systems. It reviews some of the latest advances achieved in the application of these techniques in the analysis and characterization of small and large biological compounds, covering topics such as VUV/UV and UV-visible spectroscopies, fluorescence spectroscopy, IR and Raman techniques, dynamic light scattering (DLS), circular dichroism (CD/SR-CD), pulsed electron paramagnetic resonance techniques, Mössbauer spectroscopy, nuclear magnetic resonance, X-ray methods and electron and ion impact spectroscopies. The second part of the book focuses on modelling methods and illustrates how these tools have been used and integrated with other experimental and theoretical techniques including also electron transfer processes and fast kinetics methods. The book will benefit students, researchers and professionals working with these techniques to understand the fundamental mechanisms of biological systems
