Nanotechnology cookbook : practical, reliable and jargon-free experimental procedures
ch. 1 Introduction -- ch. 2 Safety -- General Laboratory Procedure -- Personal Safety Equipment -- References -- ch. 3 Common Analytical Techniques for Nanoscale Materials -- Principles of Electron Microscopy -- Transmission Electron Microscopy -- Sample Preparation for Tem -- Scanning Electron Microscopy -- Sample Preparation in Sem -- Scanning Tunnelling Microscopy -- Atomic Force Microscopy -- Powder X-Ray Diffraction -- UV-Visible Spectroscopy -- Dynamic Light Scattering and Zeta Potential MeasurementBet Surface Area Measurement -- References -- ch. 4 Chemical Techniques -- The SOL-GEL Process -- Coating Nanomaterials Using the Sol Gel Method -- Using Sol Gel Dip Coating to form Thin Films, Thin Porous Films and Replicas -- Replication of Oddly Shaped Morphologies Using Sol Gel Techniques -- Mesoporous Inorganic Powders -- Aerogels and Supercritical Drying -- Applications of Aerogels -- Monoliths and Glasses Containing Functional Biological Materials -- Growing Zinc Oxide Nanorods -- Cadmium Sulfide, Selenide and Telluride Quantum Dots -- Making Gold and Silver ColloidsFerrofluids -- Allotropes of Carbon -- Metal Organic Frameworks -- References -- ch. 5 Physical Techniques -- Chemical Vapour Deposition -- Atomic Layer Deposition -- Photolithography Patterning -- Making Wire Tips for Scanning Tunnelling Microscopy -- References -- ch. 6 Biological Nanotechnology -- Cloning and Gene Expression to Produce Proteins in Escherichia Coli -- DNA Origami? -- Keeping Bacteria Long Term in a Glycerol Stock -- Testing the Minimum Inhibitory Concentration of an Antibiotic -- References -- Index
The peculiarities of materials at the nanoscale demand an interdisciplinary approach which can be difficult for students and researchers who are trained predominantly in a single field. A chemist might not have experience at working with cell cultures or a physicist may have no idea how to make the gold colloid they need for calibrating an atomic force microscope. The interdisciplinary approach of the book will help you to≤quickly synthesize information from multiple perspectives. Nanoscience research is also characterized by rapid movement within disciplines. The amount of time it take
