Mathematical Biology : II: Spatial Models and Biomedical Applications
Multi-Species Waves and Practical Applications -- Spatial Pattern Formation with Reaction Diffusion Systems -- Animal Coat Patterns and Other Practical Applications of Reaction Diffusion Mechanisms -- Pattern Formation on Growing Domains: Alligators and Snakes -- Bacterial Patterns and Chemotaxis -- Mechanical Theory for Generating Pattern and Form in Development -- Evolution, Morphogenetic Laws, Developmental Constraints and Teratologies -- A Mechanical Theory of Vascular Network Formation -- Epidermal Wound Healing -- Dermal Wound Healing -- Growth and Control of Brain Tumours -- Neural Models of Pattern Formation -- Geographic Spread and Control of Epidemics -- Wolf Territoriality, Wolf-Deer Interaction and Survival.
It has been over a decade since the release first edition of the now classic original edition of Murray's Mathematical Biology. Since then mathematical biology and medicine has grown at an astonishing rate and has established itself as a distinct discipline. Mathematical modelling is now being applied in every major discipline in the biomedical sciences. Though the field has become increasingly large and specialized, this book remains important as a text that introduces some of the exciting problems which arise in the biomedical sciences and gives some indication of the wide spectrum of questions that modelling can address. Due to the tremendous development in recent years, this new edition is being published in two volumes. This second volume covers spatial models and biomedical applications. For this new edition, Murray covers certain items in depth, introducing new applications such as modelling growth and control of brain tumours, bacterial patterns, wound healing and wolf territoriality. In other areas, he discusses basic modelling concepts and provides further references as needed. He also provides even closer links between models and experimental data throughout the text. Graduate students and researchers will find this book invaluable as it gives an excellent background from which to begin genuinely practical interdisciplinary research in the biomedical sciences.
