The Privacy Engineer’s Manifesto : Getting from Policy to Code to QA to Value
"It's our thesis that privacy will be an integral part of the next wave in the technology revolution and that innovators who are emphasizing privacy as an integral part of the product life cycle are on the right track." --The authors of The Privacy Engineer's Manifesto The Privacy Engineer's Manifesto: Getting from Policy to Code to QA to Value is the first book of its kind, offering industry-proven solutions that go beyond mere theory and adding lucid perspectives on the challenges and opportunities raised with the emerging "personal" information economy. The authors, a uniquely skilled team of longtime industry experts, detail how you can build privacy into products, processes, applications, and systems. The book offers insight on translating the guiding light of OECD Privacy Guidelines, the Fair Information Practice Principles (FIPPs), Generally Accepted Privacy Principles (GAPP) and Privacy by Design (PbD) into concrete concepts that organizations, software/hardware engineers, and system administrators/owners can understand and apply throughout the product or process life cycle-regardless of development methodology-from inception to retirement, including data deletion and destruction. In addition to providing practical methods to applying privacy engineering methodologies, the authors detail how to prepare and organize an enterprise or organization to support and manage products, process, systems, and applications that require personal information. The authors also address how to think about and assign value to the personal information assets being protected. Finally, the team of experts offers thoughts about the information revolution that has only just begun, and how we can live in a world of sensors and trillions of data points without losing our ethics or value(s)..and even have a little fun. The Privacy Engineer's Manifesto is designed to serve multiple stakeholders: Anyone who is involved in designing, developing, deploying and reviewing products, processes, applications, and systems that process personal information, including software/hardware engineers, technical program and product managers, support and sales engineers, system integrators, IT professionals, lawyers, and information privacy and security professionals. This book is a must-read for all practitioners in the personal information economy. Privacy will be an integral part of the next wave in the technology revolution; innovators who emphasize privacy as an integral part of the produ ...
