Selected Topics in Dynamics and Control of Chemical and Biological Processes
In view of the rapid changes in requirements, it has became necessary to place at the reader's disposal a book dealing with basic and advanced concepts and techniques for the monitoring and control of chemical and biochemical processes, as well as with the aspects of the implementation of these different robust techniques. To make the ideas covered in this book accessible to a larger audience, the authors attempted to present a balanced view of the theoretical and practical issues of control systems. Different cases are presented to illustrate the controller and observer design procedures and their dynamic effects in the closed-loop. The book consists of peer-reviewed contributions and aims the integration of recent research by a group of colleagues working on theory and practice of the process control. In order to embrace as chemical as control engineering themes, authors have proposed different kind of processes and distinct control scopes. This book is an effort to incorporate and link both theory-practice and chemical-control engineering.
Control of Chemical Processes -- Nonisothermal Stirred-Tank Reactor with Irreversible Exothermic Reaction A ? B: 1. Modeling and Local Control -- Temperature Control Via Robust Compensation of Heat Generation: Isoparaffin/Olefin Alkylation -- Control Performance of Thermally Coupled Distillation Sequences with Unidirectional Flows -- Robust Tracking for Oscillatory Chemical Reactors -- Control and Diagnosis of Biological Processes -- Robust Nonlinear Observers for Bioprocesses: Application to Wastewater Treatment -- Robust Nonlinear Control of a Pilot-Scale Anaerobic Digester -- Advances in Diagnosis of Biological Anaerobic Wastewater Treatment Plants -- Dynamics of Controlled Reactors -- Nonisothermal Stirred-Tank Reactor with Irreversible Exothermic Reaction A ? B: 2. Nonlinear Phenomena -- Oscillations in Controlled Processes: Two Experimental Study Cases.
