Coring Methods and Systems
Introduction -- Justified Coring -- Fundamental Coring Methods -- Types and Components of Core Barrel Assemblies -- Conventional Coring -- Wireline Continuous Coring -- Invasion Mitigation Coring Systems -- Mechanical Core Damage Investigation and Mitigation -- Full Closure Coring -- Oriented Coring -- Pressure/ In-situ Coring -- Logging While Coring -- Other Coring Systems -- Coring Providers and Patents -- Core Handling. .
This book is a practical guide to downhole rock sampling and coring concepts, methods, systems, and procedures for practitioners and researchers. Its chapters are based upon years of extensive studies and research about the coring methods and via direct and continuous communication and consultation obtained from various service and operator companies such as Baker Hughes GE, NOV, OMV, and Sandvik. The contributors discuss the-state-of-the-art coring methods and systems (mainly used in the petroleum and geothermal industries), which include: · conventional coring; · wireline continuous coring; · invasion mitigation coring (low invasion, gel coring, sponge coring); · jam-detection, anti-jamming, full closure; · safe-coring and tripping; · oriented-coring; · pressure/in-situ coring; · logging-while-coring; · motor coring; · mini-coring; · coiled Tubing Coring; and · underbalanced coring. The contributors provide practical and applicable understanding of the procedures of these coring methods and systems, as well as the specific core barrel components, working mechanisms, and schematics of the tools and processes used. Because Coring Methods and Systems analyses and compares the core barrels used in both petroleum and mining industries, it enhances the communication and may allow knowledge transfer between the two industries. As core damage is a serious issue during coring and handling jeopardizing correct calibration of exploration data, Coring Methods and Systems has greatly focused on its identification and its mitigation. Therefore, it can be used as an ideal source for geologists, core analysts, and reservoir engineers, to ensure the retrieval of high-quality cores. .
