Pro Spring 5 : An In-Depth Guide to the Spring Framework and Its Tools
Master Spring basics and core topics, and share the authors’ insights and real-world experiences with remoting, Hibernate, and EJB. Beyond the basics, you'll learn how to leverage the Spring Framework to build the various tiers and parts of an enterprise Java application: transactions, web and presentation tiers, deployment, and much more. A full sample application allows you to apply many of the technologies and techniques covered in Pro Spring 5 and see how they work together. This book updates the perennial bestseller with the latest that the new Spring Framework 5 has to offer. Now in its fifth edition, this popular title is by far the most comprehensive and definitive treatment of Spring available. It covers the new functional web framework, microservices and more, including interoperability with Java 9. After reading this definitive book, you'll be armed with the power of Spring to build complex Spring applications, top to bottom. The agile, lightweight, open-source Spring Framework continues to be the de facto leading enterprise Java application development framework for today's Java programmers and developers. It works with other leading open-source, agile, and lightweight Java technologies such as Hibernate, Groovy, MyBatis, and more. Spring now works with Java EE and JPA 2 as well. You will: Discover what’s new in Spring Framework 5 Use the Spring Framework with Java 9 Master data access and transactions  Work with the new functional web framework  Create microservices and other web services
Chapter 01 Introducing Spring -- Chapter 02 Getting Started -- Chapter 03 Introducing IoC -- Chapter 04 Spring Configuration In Detail and Spring Boot -- Chapter 05 Introducing Spring AOP -- Chapter 06 Spring JDBC Support -- Chapter 07 Using Hibernate In Spring -- Chapter 08 Data Access In Spring With JPA2 -- Chapter 09 Transaction Management -- Chapter 10 Validation Conversion Formatting -- Chapter 11 Task Scheduling -- Chapter 12 Using Spring Remoting -- Chapter 13 Spring Testing -- Chapter 14 Scripting Support In Spring -- Chapter 15 Application Monitoring -- Chapter 16 Web Applications -- Chapter 17 WebSocket -- Chapter 18 Spring Projects Batch, Integration XD and more -- Appendix A
