Scientific and practical studies of raw material issues
Table of contents Preface ix Organizers xi Mining exploration, mining and processing Chemical composition and genesis of serpentinite group minerals in nickeliferous weathering crust of the Elov deposit (Urals) 3E. Nikolaeva, I. Talovina, V. Nikiforova & G. Heide Dependence between the parameters of storage of artificial soils from their specific properties 11V.N. Kondakova & G.B. Pospekhov Petroleum prospects of the Middle Paleozoic sequences in the southern part of the Viluyui syneclise 18G. Cherdancev The problems of cryolithozone mining in Yakutia in conditions of global warming 25A.A. Pomortseva & O.A. Pomortsev Innovations in mechanical rock excavation at TU Bergakademie Freiberg 34B. Grafe, T. Shepel & C. Drebenstedt Technological scheme of development flooded fields of sands 46D. Dzyurich & V. Ivanov The assessment of the roof beam stability in mining workings 53M. Vilner, T.T. Nguen & P. Korchak Modern mine survey techniques in the process of mining operations in open pit mines (quarries) 58A. Blishchenko Output prediction of Semi Mobile In Pit Crushing and Conveying Systems (SMIPPC) 63R. Ritter & C. Drebenstedt Arrangements for increase the efficiency of mining operations on the deep ore mines 71A.V. Kholmskiy & D.V. Sidorov Influence of technological factors on the formation of spontaneous combustion centers in underground mining 75D.D. Golubev Evaluation problem of harmful effects in mining works during construction of subway escalator tunnels with the help of soils freezing method 82D. Mukminova & E. Volohov Optimization of gas pipeline operation modes considering the condition of gas compressorunits 91A.V. Kokorin & A.M. Schipachev Studies of mixing high viscosity petroleum and pyrolysis resin to improve quality indicators 97R. Sultanbekov & M. Nazarova The use of secondary polymers to ensure environmental safety storage of mineral waste oredressing and processing enterprise in the Southern Urals 103D. Babenko Studying the possibility of improving the properties of environmentally friendly diesel fuels 108A. Eremeeva, N. Kondrasheva & K. Nelkenbaum Environmental technologies in the production of metallurgical silicon 114M. Glazev & V. Bazhin Challenges in processing copper ores containing sulfosalts 120A. Kobylyanski, V. Zhukova, G. Petrov & A. Boduen Mining services Use of brown coal ash for the amelioration of dump soils 129C. Drebenstedt Engineering and ecological survey of oil-contaminated soils in industrial areas and efficient way to reduce the negative impact 135M.V. Bykova & M.A. Pashkevich Landscape geochemical consequences of ore mining 143V.A. Alekseenko, N.V. Shvydkaya & A.V. Puzanov Reduction of nitrous gases from blast fumes in underground mines using water based absorbency solutions 148A. Hutwalker, T. Plett & O. Langefeld Geoecological justification of reclamation of outer coal waste piles 157A. Mukhina Disinfection of waste waters of industrial enterprises by vibroacoustic method 165G. Fedorov, Y. Agafonov & C. Drebenstedt Mining 4.0 in developing countries 171J.C. Bongaerts Risk management and its contribution to sustainable development of mining enterprises 182D. Ivanova Holistik responsible mining approach 191C. Drebenstedt Modern condition and prospects for the development of forest infrastructure to improve the economy of nature management 200A.A. Kitcenko, V.F. Kovyazin & A.Y. Romanchikov Responsible mining 205O. Langefeld & A. Binder Legal issues of the use of digital technology in mining - data ownership and liability 213M. Paschke Optimization model for long-term cement quarry production scheduling 219T. Vu & C. Drebenstedt The application of MPC to improve the efficiency of an AC electric drive vector control 232S. Erokhov Features of the walking mechanism of a floating platform autonomous modular complex for the extraction and processing of peat raw materials 239D. Fadeev & S. Ivanov Simulation of combined power system with storage device 244B. Garipov & D. Ustinov Arc steel-making furnaces functionality enhancement 251E. Martynova, V. Bazhin & A. Suslov Modeling of operation modes of electrical supply systems with non-linear load 263V.N. Kostin, A.V. Krivenko & V.A. Serikov The analysis of modern regulation devices of power streams on the basis of FACTS - devices 272E. Shafhatov & E. Zhdankin Author index 278
