Beginning iPhone Development with Swift 3 : Exploring the iOS SDK
Assuming little or no working knowledge of the Swift programming language, and written in a friendly, easy-to-follow style, this book offers a comprehensive course in iPhone and iPad programming. The book starts with the basics, walking through the process of downloading and installing Xcode and the iOS 10 SDK, and then guides you though the creation of your first simple application. In this third edition of the best selling book, you’ll learn how to integrate all the interface elements iOS users have come to know and love, such as buttons, switches, pickers, toolbars, and sliders. You’ll master a variety of design patterns, from the simplest single view to complex hierarchical drill-downs. The art of table building will be demystified, and you’ll learn how to save your data using the iOS file system. You’ll also learn how to save and retrieve your data using a variety of persistence techniques, including Core Data and SQLite. And there’s much more! Beginning iPhone Development with Swift 3 covers brand-new technologies, as well as significant updates to existing tools. You'll have everything you need to create your very own apps for the latest iOS devices. Every single sample app in the book has been rebuilt from scratch using the latest Xcode and the latest iOS 10-specific project templates, and designed to take advantage of the latest Xcode features.
Chapter 1: Getting to Know the iOS Landscape -- Chapter 2: Writing Our First App -- Chapter 3: Handling Basic User Interactions -- Chapter 4: Adding Intermediate Level User Interactions -- Chapter 5: Working With Device Rotations -- Chapter 6: Creating A Multiview Application -- Chapter 7: Using Tab Bars and Pickers -- Chapter 8: Introducing to Table Views -- Chapter 9: Adding Navigation Controllers to Table Views -- Chapter 10: Collection Views -- Chapter 11: Split Views and Popovers for iPad Apps -- Chapter 12: App Customization With Settings and Defaults -- Chapter 13: Saving data Between App Launches -- Chapter 14: Documents and iCloud -- Chapter 15: Multithreaded Programming Using Grand Central Dispatch -- Chapter 16: Graphics and Drawing -- Chapter 17: Simple Games With Sprite Kit -- Chapter 18: Taps, Touches, and Gestures -- Chapter 19: Determining Location -- Chapter 20: Device Orientation and Motion -- Chapter 21: Using the Camera and Accessing Photos -- Chapter 22: Translating Apps Using Localization -- Chapter 23: Appendix: An Introduction to Swift.
