Arduino Programming with .NET and Sketch
Leverage .NET and Sketch in Arduino development implementation and integrate it into your .NET program.There are many Arduino models and compatible shields that can be used in Arduino boards. Integrating between an Arduino platform and .NET technology or Sketch can produce more advantages.Arduino Programming using .NET and Sketchshows readers how to do so withpractical Arduino projects, such as preparing a development environment, performing sensing and actuating with external devices, implementing Windows Remote Arduino and building a simple IoT program.Use this quick reference to learn the basics of the Arduino platform for multiple models and start your Arduino programming in .NET and Sketch today. What You'll Learn: Learn the basics of the Arduino platform Prepare and set up Arduino development Develop Arduino program using .NET and Sketch Perform sensing and actuating on Arduino boards Implement Windows Remote Arduino Build a simple IoT program Who This Book Is For:.NET and Sketch developers who want to learn Arduino programming.   Agus Kurniawan is a lecturer, IT consultant, and author. He has 15 years of experience in various software and hardware development projects, delivering materials in training and workshops, and technical writing. He has been awarded the Microsoft Most Valuable Professional (MVP) award 13 years in a row.He is currently a researcher and involved in teaching activities related to networking and security systems at the Faculty of Computer Science, Universitas Indonesia and Samsung RD Institute, Indonesia. He is also pursuing a PhD in Computer Science at the Freie Universität Berlin, Germany.
Leverage .NET and Sketch in Arduino development implementation and integrate it into your .NET program. There are many Arduino models and compatible shields that can be used in Arduino boards. Integrating between an Arduino platform and .NET technology or Sketch can produce more advantages. Arduino Programming using .NET and Sketch shows readers how to do so with practical Arduino projects, such as preparing a development environment, performing sensing and actuating with external devices, implementing Windows Remote Arduino and building a simple IoT program. Use this quick reference to learn the basics of the Arduino platform and start your Arduino programming in .NET and Sketch today
