New Mathematical Cuneiform Texts
Late Babylonian Tables of Many-Place Regular Sexagesimal Numbers, from Babylon, Sippar, and Uruk -- Direct and Inverse Factorization Algorithms for Many-Place Regular Sexagesimal Numbers -- Metrological Table Texts from Achaemenid Uruk -- CBS 8539. A Mixed Metrological Table Text from Achaemenid Nippur -- Five Texts from Old Babylonian Mê-Turran (Tell Haddad), Ishchali and Shaduppûm (Tell Harmal) with Rectangular-Linear Problems for Figures of a Given Form -- Five Texts from Old Babylonian Mê-Turran (Tell Haddad), Ishchali and Shaduppûm (Tell Harmal) with Rectangular-Linear Problems for Figures of a Given Form -- A Recombination Text from Old Babylonian Shaduppûm Concerned with Economic Transactions -- Six Fragments of Problem Texts of Group 6, from Late Old Babylonian Sippar -- More Mathematical Cuneiform Texts of Group 6 from Late Old Babylonian Sippar -- Goetze’s Compendium from Old Babylonian Shaduppûm and Two Catalog Texts from Old Babylonian Susa -- Three Old Babylonian Recombination Texts of Mathematical Problems without Solution Procedures, Making up Group 2b -- An Early Dynastic/Early Sargonic Metro-Mathematical Recombination Text from Umma with Commercial Exercises -- An Ur III Table of Reciprocals without Place Value Numbers -- Fragments of Three Tablets from Ur III Nippur with Drawings of Labyrinths.
This monograph presents in great detail a large number of both unpublished and previously published Babylonian mathematical texts in the cuneiform script. It is a continuation of the work A Remarkable Collection of Babylonian Mathematical Texts (Springer 2007) written by Jöran Friberg, the leading expert on Babylonian mathematics. Focussing on the big picture, Friberg explores in this book several Late Babylonian arithmetical and metro-mathematical table texts from the sites of Babylon, Uruk and Sippar, collections of mathematical exercises from four Old Babylonian sites, as well as a new text from Early Dynastic/Early Sargonic Umma, which is the oldest known collection of mathematical exercises. A table of reciprocals from the end of the third millennium BC, differing radically from well-documented but younger tables of reciprocals from the Neo-Sumerian and Old-Babylonian periods, as well as a fragment of a Neo-Sumerian clay tablet showing a new type of a labyrinth are also discussed. The material is presented in the form of photos, hand copies, transliterations and translations, accompanied by exhaustive explanations. The previously unpublished mathematical cuneiform texts presented in this book were discovered by Farouk Al-Rawi, who also made numerous beautiful hand copies of most of the clay tablets. Historians of mathematics and the Mesopotamian civilization, linguists and those interested in ancient labyrinths will find New Mathematical Cuneiform Texts particularly valuable. The book contains many texts of previously unknown types and material that is not available elsewhere.
