Higher Mathematics for Physics and Engineering : Mathematical Methods for Contemporary Physics
Due to the rapid expansion of the frontiers of physics and engineering, the demand for higher-level mathematics is increasing yearly. This book is designed to provide accessible knowledge of higher-level mathematics demanded in contemporary physics and engineering. Rigorous mathematical structures of important subjects in these fields are fully covered, which will be helpful for readers to become acquainted with certain abstract mathematical concepts. The selected topics are:  - Real analysis, Complex analysis, Functional analysis, Lebesgue integration theory, Fourier analysis, Laplace analysis, Wavelet analysis, Differential equations, and Tensor analysis.  This book is essentially self-contained, and assumes only standard undergraduate preparation such as elementary calculus and linear algebra. It is thus well suited for graduate students in physics and engineering who are interested in theoretical backgrounds of their own fields. Further, it will also be useful for mathematics students who want to understand how certain abstract concepts in mathematics are applied in a practical situation. The readers will not only acquire basic knowledge toward higher-level mathematics, but also imbibe mathematical skills necessary for contemporary studies of their own fields.  Tsuneyoshi Nakayama  graduated from Hokkaido University in Japan in 1973. He is a professor of Theoretical Condensed Matter Physics in Department of Applied Physics in Hokkaido University from 1986. During this period he stayed Max-Planck Institute, University of Monpellier, University of Cambridge, and The University of Tokyo. He is the co-author of the book 'Fractal concepts of condensed matter.' Hiroyuki Shima  obtained Ph.D from Hokkaido University. He is currently pursuing his studies, with a special interest in critical phenomena in disordered systems and many-body problems in complex systems. He has had a considerable amount of experience in teaching mathematics and physics to undergraduate and graduate students.
