Mathematics Without Boundaries : Surveys in Pure Mathematics
The contributions in this volume have been written by eminent scientists from the international mathematical community and present significant advances in several theories, methods and problems of Mathematical Analysis, Discrete Mathematics, Geometry and their Applications. The chapters focus on both old and recent developments in Functional Analysis, Harmonic Analysis, Complex Analysis, Operator Theory, Combinatorics, Functional Equations, Differential Equations as well as a variety of Applications. The book also contains some review works, which could prove particularly useful for a broader audience of readers in Mathematical Sciences, and especially to graduate students looking for the  latest information
Some Unexpected Connections Between Analysis and Combinatorics (D. Andrica, E.J. Ionascu) -- The Hilali Conjecture for Hyperelliptic Spaces (J.F. de Bobadilla, J. Fresnan, V. Munoz, A. Murillo) -- Aveiro Discretization Method in Mathematics: A New Discretization Principle (L.P. Castro, H. Fujiwara, M.M. Rodrigues, S. Saitoh, V.K. Tuan) -- Variational Inequality Models Arising in the Study of Viscoelastic Materials (O. Chau, D. Goeleven, R. Oujja) -- Lucjan Emil Bottcher and his Mathematical Legacy (S. Domoradzki, M. Stawiska) -- Spectral Properties of Toeplitz Operators Acting on Gabor Type Reproducing Kernel Hilbert Spaces (H.G. Feichtinger, K. Nowak, M. Pap) -- Which Numbers Simplify Your Problem? (P. Giordano) -- Approximation Properties of Phillips Operators (N.K. Govil, V. Gupta) -- Geometric Patterns in Uniform Distribution of Zeros of the Riemann Zeta Function (M. Hassani) -- Fractional Cauchy Problem in Sense of the Complex Hadamard Operators (R.W. Ibrahim) -- Studies on Generalized Fractional Operators in a Complex Domain (R.W. Ibrahim) -- On Completely Monotonic and Related Functions (S. Koumandos) -- Hyers-Ulam Stability of Set-Valued Mappings (J.R. Lee, C. Park, Th.M. Rassias) -- On the Generalized Hyers-Ulam Stability in Multi-Banach Spaces Associated to a Jensen-Type Additive Mapping (F. Moradlou, Th. M. Rassias) -- Elliptic Problems with Nonhomogeneous Differential Operators and Multiple Solutions (D. Motreanu, P. Wikert) -- Isotone Retractions onto the Positive Cone of the Ordered Euclidean Space (A.B. Nemeth, S.Z. Nemeth) -- On the Circle Preserving Property of Mobius Transformations (N.Y. Ozgur) -- Extended Crystal PDEs (A. Prastaro) -- Multiplicative Arithmetic Functions of Several Variables: A Survey (L. Toth) -- Sequential Maximality Principles (M. Turinici) -- Univalence Conditions and Properties for Some New Integral Operators (N. Ularu, D. Breaz) -- On the Study of Hyperbolic Triangles and Circles by Hyperbolic Barycentric Coordinates in Relativistic Hyperbolic Geometry (A.A. Ungar) -- Multidimensional Half-Discrete Hilbert-Type Inequalities and Operator Expressions (B. Yang) -- On the Extension Problems of Isometric and Nonexpansive Mappings (X. Yang, X. Zhao)
