Pro Exchange 2013 SP1 PowerShell Administration : For Exchange On-Premises and Office 365
Pro Exchange 2013 SP1 PowerShell Administration is your one-stop resource for both basic and advanced administration of Exchange Server 2013 Service Pack 1 and Exchange Online, Microsoft's best-selling hosted Exchange service. The industry shift that is currently happening toward ‘the cloud’ is not just about hosting your applications somewhere else. It’s also driving automation and standardization of technical solutions, which in turn is leading to greater productivity. Embracing PowerShell will help you administer your existing environment more efficiently and also teach you valuable ‘cloud-ready’ skills as well. This book is your best-in-class companion for gaining a deep, thorough understanding of managing all facets of Exchange 2013 Service Pack 1 with PowerShell. Authors Michel de Rooij and Jaap Wesselius, both Microsoft messaging MVPs, take you through tips, tricks, and little known facts that will make your administration life simpler and more effective. Along with revealing what’s new in Exchange Server 2013, this well-paced, deeply engaging tutorial provides detailed deployment guidance, for upgraders and migrators as well as for organizations entirely new to the Exchange platform. The book details how all of the major Exchange components fit together, from SMTP messages to all kinds of clients. It also provides in-depth configuration examples with an eye toward creating scalable, reliable, and secure installations. Additionally, this guide covers the tools and techniques for monitoring an Exchange environment and troubleshooting when things go wrong. Discover how to automate time consuming management tasks, configure a Hybrid environment with an on-premises Exchange deployment, and more today with Pro Exchange 2013 SP1 PowerShell Administration. Teaches you the basics of PowerShell and provides a foundation for more advanced scripting Deploy an Office 365 tenant in hybrid mode with your existing Exchange servers Learn how to manage Exchange Online with Remote PowerShell
