Migrating to Swift from Flash and ActionScript
This book builds on your knowledge of ActionScript and takes you on the fast track to developing iOS apps with Swift, Apple’s latest language. Swift’s syntax is easier to understand than Objective-C for people already familiar with ActionScript. At the same time, it offers a number of new features and richer expressiveness than either ActionScript or Objective-C. Switching to a new platform usually involves migration on three levels: tools, workflow, and programming language. Migrating to Swift from Flash and ActionScript is structured as a guide that will help you on each level with step-by-step tutorials. Apart from the tutorials, it comes with recipes for some of the most popular mobile development topics: social network integration and messaging, taking advantage of device capabilities, networking and working with local and iCloud data, advertising in your app or game, and working with 2D and 3D graphics. The book also includes a final chapter that takes you through Apple’s App Store submission process. Don’t just build your apps, sell them. This book Leverages your ActionScript skills and experience to give you a head start with Swift and iOS, including updates for Swift 3 Gives you the fastest way to migrate to a new set of tools, workflow, and programming language with illustrated step-by-step tutorials Walks you through a tutorial for developing more complex UIs Serves as a quick reference with recipes for specific mobile development tasks Provides a set of focused chapters that serve as both introduction and reference for the Swift language.
Part I. Tool Migration -- 1. Setting Up Your Environment -- 2. Hello, Xcode! -- 3. Introducing the Xcode Debugger -- 4. Additional Development Tools -- Part II. Workflow Migration -- 5. "Hello, Swift!" - A Tutorial for Building an iOS App -- 6. Adding a More Complex UI -- 7. Concurrency -- 8. Debugging and Testing Your App -- Part III. Making Apps with Swift-Applied Examples -- 9. Communicating: E-mail, Text Messages, and Calls -- 10. Getting Social: Posting to Facebook and Twitter -- 11. Knowing your Location -- 12. Working with the Camera and Images -- 13. Working with Data -- 14. Networking -- 15. Adding Advertisements and Notifications -- 16. Using the High-End Graphics APIs -- Part IV. Language Migration -- 17. Swift Language Basics -- 18. Operators -- 19. Types -- 20. Control Flow -- 21. Object-Oriented Programming Topics -- 22. New and Different Concepts -- 23. Releasing your App in the App Store.
