Modeling in membranes and membrane-based processes
"The book Modeling in Membranes and Membrane-Based Processes is based on the idea of developing a reference which will cover most relevant and "state-of-the-art" approaches in membrane modeling. This book explores almost every major aspect of modeling and the techniques applied in membrane separation studies and applications. This includes first principle-based models, thermodynamics models, computational fluid dynamics simulations, molecular dynamics simulations, and artificial intelligence-based modeling for membrane separation processes. These models have been discussed in light of various applications ranging from desalination to gas separation. In addition, this breakthrough new volume covers the fundamentals of polymer membrane pore formation mechanisms, covering not only a wide range of modeling techniques, but also has various facets of membrane-based applications. Thus, this book can be an excellent source for a holistic perspective on membranes in general, as well as a comprehensive and valuable reference work. Whether a veteran engineer in the field or lab or a student in chemical or process engineering, this latest volume in the "Advances in Membrane Processes" is a must-have, along with the first book in the series, Membrane Processes, also available from Wiley-Scrivener"--
Introduction: Modeling and simulation / Anirban Roy, Aditi Mullick, Anupam Mukherjee and Siddhartha Moulik -- Thermodynamics of casting solution in membrane synthesis / Shubham Lanjewar, Anupam Mukherjee, Lubna Rehman, Amira Abdelrasoul and Anirban Roy -- Computational fluid dynamics (CFD) modeling / Pelin Yazgan-Birgi, Mohamed I. Hassan Ali and Hassan A. Arafat -- Role of thermodynamics and membrane separations in water-energy nexus / Anupam Mukherjee, Shubham Lanjewar, Ridhish Kumar, Arijit Chakraborty, Amira Abdelrasoul and Anirban Roy -- Modeling and simulation for membrane gas separation processes / Samaneh Bandehali, Hamidreza Sanaeepur, Abtin Ebadi Amooghin and Abdolreza Moghadassi -- Gas transport through mixed matrix membranes (MMMS) : fundamentals and modeling / Rizwan Nasir, Hafiz Abdul Mannan, Danial Qadir, Hilmi Mukhtar, Dzeti Farhah Mohshim and Aymn Abdulrahman -- Application of molecular dynamics simulation to study the transport properties of carbon / Maryam Ahmadzadeh Tofighy and Toraj Mohammadi -- Modeling of sorption behaviour of ethylene glycol-water mixture using flory-huggins theory / Haresh K. Dave and Kaushik Nath -- Artificial intelligence model for forecasting of membrane fouling in wastewater treatment by membrane technology / Khac-Uan Do and Félix Schmitt -- Membrane technology : transport models and application in desalination process / Lubna Muzamil Rehman, Anupam Mukherjee, Zhiping Lai and Anirban Roy.
