Innovation in developing and transition countries : New horizons in regional science series
This edited volume offers a multidisciplinary perspective on innovation challenges and innovative practices in the context of developing and transition countries. The contributions mostly embrace a national innovation system approach in an attempt to understand innovation processes and their implications at both macro and micro levels. The chapters in this book, taken as a whole, offer insights on a range of issues grouped around the following questions: - What are the challenges for innovation at the macro (system) and micro (firm) level according to the experiences of developing and transition countries? - What is the role of public policies in the transformation of national innovation systems? - What innovation practices allow to successfully overcome challenges to innovation? - What is the role of collaboration and learning in fostering innovation? A variety of methods are presented including historical analysis, participatory action research, case studies, document analysis and survey-based quantitative research as well as triangulation to study innovation and adaptation strategies in developing and transition countries. It also provides 10 case studies selected from developing and transition countries, to offer a detailed and comprehensive perspective on innovation and innovation practices at macro and micro levels. Students and researchers interested in innovation and innovation systems around the world will find this volume an invaluable tool and reference
Contents: 1. Introduction. A context-specific two-way approach to the study of innovation systems in developing and transition countries / Jana Schmutzler, Marcela Suarez, Alexandra Tsvetkova and Alessandra Faggian -- Part I. The role of public policies in developing and transforming national and sectoral innovation systems -- 2. From industrialization to innovation: Building the Peruvian National System of Science, Technology and Innovation, 1968-2015 / Miklos Lukacs de Pereny -- 3. State of the National Innovation System of Armenia / Tatevik Poghosyan -- 4. The role of public policies in building-up a national pharmaceutical innovation system in Tunisia: challenges after the Jasmine Revolution / Nejla Yacoub -- 5. Public policies to orient science, technology and innovation in healthcare towards inclusive development: Evidence from Brazil / Cecilia Tomassini Urti -- 6. The role of public policies in promoting innovations and innovation complementarities in developing countries: the case of Argentinian software industry / Hernan Alejandro Morero -- Part II. Innovation challenges and response strategies in national and sectoral innovation systems: A firm-level perspective -- 7. Health biotechnology in Malaysia: issues and challenges faced by the innovative biotechnology firms / Gulifeiya Abuduxike and Syed Mohamed Aljunid -- 8. Collaborating to innovate: the case of the Nigerian mining industry / Oluseye Oladayo Jegede -- 9. Collaboration among Hungarian SMEs in innovation / László Csonka -- 10. Developmental university in emerging innovation systems: the case of the Universidad Mayor de San Simón, Bolivia / Carlos Gonzalo Acevedo Peña, Walter Mauricio Hernán Céspedes Quiroga and José Eduardo Zambrana Montán -- 11. The lost tiger in technological catch-up: lessons learned and implications for latecomer strategic typology / Xiao-Shan Yap and Rajah Rasiah -- 12. Epilogue. innovation systems in developing and transition countries: what is different, what is missing and what are the implications? / Alexandra Tsvetkova, Jana Schmutzler and Marcela Suarez -- Index.
