The giant vesicle book
Giant vesicles are widely used as a model membrane system, both for basic biological systems and for their promising applications in the development of smart materials and cell mimetics, as well as in driving new technologies in synthetic biology and for the cosmetics and pharmaceutical industry. The reader is guided to use giant vesicles, from the formation of simple membrane platforms to advanced membrane and cell system models. It also includes fundamentals for understanding lipid or polymer membrane structure, properties and behavior. Every chapter includes ideas for further applications and discussions on the implications of the observed phenomena towards understanding membrane-related processes. The Giant Vesicle Book is meant to be a road companion, a trusted guide for those making their first steps in this field as well as a source of information required by experts.
"Giant vesicles are being widely used as a model membrane system, both for basic biological systems and for their promising applications in the development of smart materials, in particular for drug delivery, as well as use in driving new technologies for the cosmetics industry. This practical manual gives the reader a toolbox for starting work with giant vesicles, including expert's tips on proper preparation methods, measurement, and characterization methods. The contents build from a simple model to use of vesicles as advanced membrane and cell system models. It also includes fundamentals for understanding vesicle structure, properties and behavior. Key Features - Provides a complete summary of the field, covering fundamental concepts, practical methods, core theory, and the most promising applications. - Emphasizes clarity of presentation with instructive illustrations and exemplary data. - Covers different preparation methods for simple to more complex membrane models. - Discusses the main techniques for characterization and measurement of membrane properties. - Includes handy tables with data and structures for ready reference"--
