Beginning Python : From Novice to Professional
Gain a fundamental understanding of Python’s syntax and features with this up-to-date introduction and practical reference. Covering a wide array of Python-related programming topics, including addressing language internals, database integration, network programming, and web services, you’ll be guided by sound development principles. Ten accompanying projects will ensure you can get your hands dirty in no time. Updated to reflect the latest in Python programming paradigms and several of the most crucial features found in Python 3, Beginning Python also covers advanced topics such as extending Python and packaging/distributing Python applications. You will: Become a proficient Python programmer by following along with a friendly, practical guide to the language’s key features Write code faster by learning how to take advantage of advanced features such as magic methods, exceptions, and abstraction Gain insight into modern Python programming paradigms including testing, documentation, packaging, and distribution Learn by following along with ten interesting projects, including a P2P file-sharing application, chat client, video game, remote text editor, and more
Ch. 1 Instant hacking : the basics -- Ch. 2 Lists and tuples -- Ch. 3 Working with strings -- Ch. 4 Dictionaries : when indices won't do -- Ch. 5 Conditionals, loops, and some other statements -- Ch. 6 Abstraction -- Ch. 7 More abstraction -- Ch. 8 Exceptions -- Ch. 9 Magic methods, properties, and iterators -- Ch. 10 Batteries included -- Ch. 11 Files and stuff -- Ch. 12 Graphical user interfaces -- Ch. 13 Database support -- Ch. 14 Network programming -- Ch. 15 Python and the Web -- Ch. 16 Testing, 1-2-3 -- Ch. 17 Extending Python -- Ch. 18 Packaging your programs -- Ch. 19 Playful programming -- Ch. 20 Project 1 : instant markup -- Ch. 21 Project 2 : painting a pretty picture -- Ch. 22 Project 3 : XML for all occasions -- Ch. 23 Project 4 : in the news -- Ch. 24 Project 5 : a virtual tea party -- Ch. 25 Project 6 : remote editing with CGI -- Ch. 26 Project 7 : your own bulletin board -- Ch. 27 Project 8 : file sharing with XML-RPC -- Ch. 28 Project 9 : file sharing II - now with GUI! -- Ch. 29 Project 10 : do-it-yourself arcade game -- Appendix A: The Short Version -- Appendix B: Python Reference
