Walter Greiner memorial volume
"Walter Greiner (1935-2016) was a German physicist of the Goethe University, Frankfurt, well-known for his many contributions in scientific research and developments, in particular the field of nuclear physics. He was a well-respected science leader and a teacher who had supervised batches of young collaborators and students, many of whom are now leaders in both academics and industry worldwide. Greiner had a wide interest of science which covered atomic physics, heavy-ion physics, and nuclear astrophysics. Greiner co-founded GSI, the Helmholtz Centre for Heavy Ion Research, and the multi-disciplinary research center, FIAS (Frankfurt Institute for Advanced Studies). Besides numerous professorship with universities worldwide, including the University of Maryland, Greiner received many prestigious prizes in honor of his outstanding contributions, among others are the Otto Hahn Prize and the Max Born Prize. This memorial volume is a special tribute by Greiner's former colleagues, students, and friends honoring his contributions and passion in science. The volume begins with a writing by Greiner about his early days in science. The subsequent articles, comprising personal and scientific reminiscences of Walter Greiner, serve as timely reviews on various topics of current interest"--
Reflections on my youth and early years in science / Walter Greiner -- The early work of Walter Greiner (1960-1968) / Serban Misicu -- Photon scattering off nuclei / Hartmuth Arenhövel -- The QCD phase diagram from statistical model analysis / Marcus Bleicher, Jan Steinheimer and Reinhard Stock -- Why may hydrodynamics work for classical radiation field? / Tamas S. Biro -- Pseudo-complex general relativity: theory / Thomas Boller & Peter O. Hess -- Observational tests of the pseudo-complex theory with black hole imaging / Thomas Boller & Peter O. Hess -- Chiral symmetry restoration and deconfinement in heavy-ion collisions / E.L. Bratkovskaya, W. Cassing, P. Moreau & A. Palmese -- The physics case for the 10 GeV energy region / J. Cleymans -- Can one determine the neutrino mass by electron capture? / Amand Faessler -- Open and hidden charm in my collaboration with Walter Greiner / Mark I. Gorenstein -- Dark mater compact stars in pseudo-complex general relativity / D. Hadjimichef, G.L. Volkmer, R.O. Gomes and C.A. Zen Vasconcellos -- Some aspects of nuclear structure / J.H. Hamilton, A.V. Ramayya and E.H. Wang -- The power of the geometrical model of the nucleus / P.O. Hess -- From strangeness enhancement to quark-gluon plasma discovery / Peter Koch, Berndt Mueller and Johann Rafelski -- Time-dependent perturbation theory as a basis for combined many-body-perturbation and QED / Ingvar Lindgren -- The fullerene-like structure of superheavy element z = 120 (greinerium) -- a tribute to Walter Greiner / S. Misicu & I.N. Mishustin -- Cluster radioactivity : past and future / D.N. Poenaru & R.A. Gherghescu -- Nuclear mean-field models and super-heavy elements / P.-G. Reinhard -- The octupole collective hamiltonian. Does it follow the example of the quadrupole case? / Stanislaw G. Rohozinski & Leszek Prochniak -- Modeling hybrid stars / S. Schramm -- Elliptic flow and the nuclear equation of state / W. Trautmann and H.H. Wolter -- Black holes and high energy physics: from astrophysics to large extra dimensions / Michael Florian Wondrak, Marcus Bleicher, and Piero Nicolini
