Introduction to sociology
"Why are today's youth soccer players of the national teams often born in January and rarely in December? Why are many people satisfied with their own lives, but think the world in general is getting worse? Why is binge drinking so common in college, while the majority of students are against it? Why are your friends so similar to you? Why are citizens of the United States more religious than those in Western Europe? Comprehensive and engaging, this textbook introduces students not only to foundational sociological work, but also to insights from contemporary sociological theory and research. This combined approach ensures that students become familiar with the core of sociology: key concepts, theories, perspectives, methods, and findings. Students will acquire the ability to think like a sociologist, investigate and understand complex social phenomena. This text presents a complete sociological toolkit, guiding students in the art of asking good sociological questions, devising a sophisticated theory, and developing methodologies to observe social phenomena. The chapters of this book build cumulatively to equip students with the tools to quickly understand any new sociological topic or contemporary social problem. The textbook also applies the sociological toolkit to selected key sociological issues, showing how specific sociological topics can be easily investigated and understood using this approach. Taking a global and comparative perspective, the book covers a rich diversity of sociological topics and social problems, such as crime, immigration, race and ethnicity, media, education, family, organizations, gender, poverty, modernization, and religion. The book presents a range of helpful pedagogical features throughout, such as: Chapter Overview and Learning Goals summaries at the start of every chapter Thinking like a sociologist boxes, encouraging students to reflect critically on learning points Principle boxes, summarizing key sociological principles Theory schema boxes, presenting sociological theories in a clear, understandable manner Stylised Facts highlighting key empirical findings and patterns Key Concepts and Summary sections at the end of every chapter Companion website providing additional material for every chapter for both instructors and students, including PowerPoint lecture notes, discussion questions and answers, multiple-choice questions, further reading, and a full glossary of terms. This clear and accessible text is essential read ...
