Increasing occupational health and safety in workplaces : individual, work and organizational factors
"The ILO estimates that around 2.3 million workers die annually as a result of occupational accidents and diseases. A further one million workers suffer workplace accidents every day. Alongside the human impact, these accidents cost an estimated 4 per cent of GDP in the US, equating to 2.8 trillion US dollars. This book considers occupational health and safety, and the ways in which it can be increased to both improve working conditions and reduce the material costs of accidents. Bringing together leading academics in the field, and presenting original research from both the private and public sectors, Increasing Occupational Health and Safety in Workplaces argues for greater reporting of workplace accidents and injuries. It also incorporates stress as a factor in rates of accidents and injuries, and suggests ways in which workplace safety cultures can be fostered and improved. This book will be an invaluable tool for students of management, especially those with an interest in small businesses. Its insights will also be of interest for organizational administrators responsible for workplace accidents and injuries at various levels, and for government employees with an interest in occupational health and safety"--
Contents: Part I. Introduction -- 1. Increasing occupational health and safety in workplaces: why it matters / Ronald J. Burke -- 2. Accident underreporting in the workplace / Tahira M. Probst, Erica L. Bettac and Christopher Austin -- 3. Stress, human errors and accidents / Astrid M. Richardsen, Monica Martinussen and Sabine Kaiser -- Part II. Workplace health and safety factors -- 4. Drug use and workplace safety: issues and good practice responses / Ken Pidd, Ann Roche and Vinita Duraisingam -- 5. Understanding domestic violence as a workplace problem / Barb MacQuarrie, Katreena Scott, Danielle Lim, Laura Olszowy, Michael D. Saxton, Jen MacGregor and Nadine Wathen -- 6. Job resources and outcomes in the process of bullying: a study in a Norwegian healthcare setting / Espen Olsen, Maria Therese Jensen, Gunhild Bjaalid, and Aslaug Mikkelsen -- 7. Safety, health and climate: taking the temperature on nurses' work health and safety / Valerie O'Keeffe -- 8. Antecedents of aggression in nursing: a review / Katharine McMahon, Lauren S. Park, and Liu-Qin Yang -- Part IV: High-risk occupations -- 10. Pesticide exposure and the health effects among Latino and other farmworkers / Joseph G. Grzywacz, John S. Luque and Alan Becker -- 11. Occupational health and safety in the mining sector / Carmel Bofinger and David Cliff -- 12. Occupational health and safety in the construction sector / Helen Lingard -- 13. The case for psychosocial safety climate to be recognised in mining disaster investigations / Tony Pooley, Silvia Pignata and Maureen F. Dollard -- 14. Aggressive and criminal behavior of police officers / Philip Matthew Stinson, Sr. -- 15. Workplace stress and firefighter health and safety / Todd D. Smith, Mari-Amanda Dyal, and David M. DeJoy -- Part IV: Building safety climates, promoting worker health and changing workplace cultures -- 16. Types of safety cultures and best practice suggestions / Sharon Clarke -- 17. The role of safety culture and safety leadership on safety related outcomes / Çakıl Agnew and Laura Frühen -- 18. The benefits of transformational leadership and transformational leadership training on health and safety outcomes / Tabatha Thibault, Duygu Biricik Gulseren, and E. Kevin Kelloway -- 19. Crew resource management (CRM) and non-technical skills / Rhona Flin, Amy Irwin and Oliver Hamlet -- 19. Health protection and health promotion in small business / Natalie V. Schwatka, Liliana Tenney, and Lee S. Newman -- Index.
