CMMI for Development : Implementation Guide
This practical book offers best practices to be followed for CMMi implementation. It allows the reader to discover and avoid the mistakes that are commonly made while implementing the CMMi practices in their work areas. You'll experience how easy, yet concise the CMMi practice description is and how quickly and efficiently it can be implemented to your work processes. CMMi is the most popular software process improvement model developed by the US department of Defence Software Engineering Institute (Carnegie Mellon University). This model is extensively used by software professionals and organizations worldwide. CMMI for Development v1.3 : Implementation Guide is your step by step guide that aims to change the way people interpret and implement CMMi in their organizations
This practical book offers best practices to be followed for CMMi implementation. It allows the reader to discover and avoid the mistakes that are commonly made while implementing CMMi practices in their work areas. You'll experience how easy, yet concise the CMMi practice description is and how quickly and efficiently it can be implemented to your work processes.CMMi is a popular software process improvement model developed by the US department of Defence Software Engineering Institute (Carnegie Mellon University). This model is extensively used by software professionals and organizations worldwide. CMMI for Development: Implementation Guide is a step by step guide to change the way people interpret and implement CMMi in their organizations.What You Will LearnWhat CMMi is and how to benefit from itDetect and rectify common mistakes Best practices and methods to implement CMMi How to define your processes using CMMiHow to use these processes in your work areas and collect improvement dataHow to prepare your work area and organization for CMMi appraisalWho is this book forThis book is targeted towards and variety of audiences; namely Program Managers, Project Managers, Development Leads, Test Leads, Quality Professionals, Training Professionals. Mukundis a product enthusiast, a techie by heart and an Author by hobby. He is a Certified ScrumMaster, currently working with Nityo Infotech as Senior Product Manager. In his leisure time, he can be found reading articles on current affairs and technologies alike.Abhishek is Quality Professional with more than 10 years of experience implementation ofCMMi, ISO 9001, ITIL, ISO 27001. He holds a black belt in Lean Six Sigma and is also CertifiedISO 27001 Lead Auditor.
