Trends in biochemistry and molecular biology
""Trends in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology" provides the essential information necessary for students in the life and health sciences. The book adopts a readable, student-friendly style that helps introduce students to this fascinating and often-times daunting subject. Each chapter begins with a summary of essential facts followed by descriptions of the subjects that focus on core information with clear, simple diagrams that are easy for students to understand and recall in essays. The extensive use of cross-referencing makes it possible for students to return to individual sections for review purposes without difficulty. Whether students interests lie in biological, chemical, or medical aspects of biochemistry and molecular biology, "Trends Biochemistry and Molecular Biology" will help make students able, excited, and eager to read more widely and more deeply on this engaging subject. This important new book not only covers an extensive set of topics of current and special interest, but includes more traditional areas in biochemistry as well. Covering a wide range of topics, from classical biochemistry to proteomics and genomics, it also details the properties of commonly used biochemicals, laboratory solvents, and reagents. Coverage is expanded to include a section on stem cells, chapters on immunochemical techniques and spectroscopy techniques, and additional chapters on drug discovery and development, and clinical biochemistry. Moreover, a number of techniques used in molecular biology, for example, molecular cloning, gel electrophoresis, polymerase chain reaction, microarrays, etc. are also explained with practical examples. It also includes some of the vital pieces of work being conducted across the world, on various topics related to molecular biology. Through it, we attempt to further enlighten the readers about the new concepts in this field. Altogether, presented in an organized, concise, and simple-to-use format, "Trends in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology" allows quick access to the most frequently used data. There is an emphasis on biological aspects of biochemistry and new topics are introduced in their biological context wherever possible. Experimental design and the statistical analysis of data are emphasized at the end to ensure students are equipped to successfully plan their own experiments and examine the results obtained"--
