An Introduction to the Mechanics of Fluids
The authors have backgrounds which are ideally suited for writing this book. The late C. Truesdell is well known for his monumental treatises on continuum thermomechanics. K.R. Rajagopal has made many important contributions to the mechanics of continua in general, and to nonlinear fluids in particular. They have produced a compact, moderately general book which encompasses many fluid models of current interest…The book is written very clearly and contains a large number of exercises and their solutions. The level of mathematics is that commonly taught to undergraduates in mathematics departments. This is an excellent book which is highly recommended to students and researchers in fluid mechanics. -Mathematical Reviews The writing style is quintessential Truesdellania: purely mathematical, breathtaking, irrepressible, irreverent, uncompromising, taking no prisoners..The book is filled with historical nuggets…Its pure, exact mathematics will baptize, enlighten and exhilarate. -Applied Mechanics Review The most positive aspect of this book is its brevity; a large number of topics are covered within the space of a little more than 250 pages. -Current Science This advanced monograph presents one of the best new views on the subject for those who like relative simplicity and certain abstractness combined with mathematical rigor and elegance…All the details…are carefully worked out and to a large degree based on original work and lifelong experience. The topics range from Euler fluids to memory fluids, and the framework is general enough to treat other nonlinear fluids than those explicitly mentioned…The book should be useful for graduates and researchers not only in applied mathematics and mechanical engineering but also in advanced materials science and technology…Each public scientific library as well as hydrodynamics hand libraries should own this timeless book…Doubtlessly everyone who decides to buy this book can be sure to have bought a classic of science and the heritage of an outstanding scientist. -Silikáty All applied mathematicians, mechanical engineers, aerospace engineers, and engineering mechanics graduates and researchers will find the book an essential reading resource for fluids. -Simulation News Europe
