Automatic target recognition
This work provides an inside view of the Automatic Target Recognition (ATR) field, from an engineer working in the field for 40 years. In many ways ATR advances follow the march of technology, including digital electronics, unmanned systems, computer vision, pattern recognition, and artificial intelligence. Algorithm descriptions and testing procedures are provided in the text. Although some of these techniques are similar to what can be found in the academic and commercial sectors, an academic or commercial perspective is inadequate to tackle the military problem. This book covers unique aspects and considerations in the design, testing and fielding of ATR systems. These aspects need to be understood by ATR engineers working in the defense industry as well as their government customers. The final chapter discusses the future of ATR. It provides a type of Turing Test for determining if an ATR is truly smart (neuromorphic or brain-like). The Appendix reveals difficult to find resources available to the "ATR engineer
Preface -- 1. Definitions and performance measures; 1.1. What is automatic target recognition (ATR)? 1.2. Basic definitions; 1.3. Detection criteria; 1.4. Performance measures for target detection; 1.5. Classification criteria; 1.6. Experimental design; 1.7. Characterizations of ATR hardware/software; References -- 2. Target detection strategies: 2.1. Introduction; 2.2. Simple detection algorithms; 2.3. More-complex detectors; 2.4. Grand paradigms; 2.5. Traditional SAR and hyperspectral target detectors; 2.6. Conclusions and future direction; References; Appendices -- 3. Target classifier strategies: 3.1. Introduction; 3.2. Main issues to consider in target classification; 3.3. Feature extraction; 3.4. Feature selection; 3.5. Examples of feature types; 3.6. Examples of classifiers; 3.7. Discussion; References -- 4. Unification of automatic target tracking and automatic target recognition: 4.1. Introduction; 4.2. Categories of tracking problems; 4.3. Tracking problems; 4.4. Extensions of target tracking; 4.5. Collaborative ATT and ATR; 4.6. Unification of ATT and ATR; 4.7. Discussion; References -- 5. How smart is your automatic target recognizer? 5.1. Introduction; 5.2. Test for determining the intelligence of an ATR; 5.3. Sentient versus sapient ATR; 5.4. Discussion: where is ATR headed? References -- Appendix 1: Resources -- Appendix 2: Acronyms -- Index
