Dart for Absolute Beginners
Dart for Absolute Beginners enables individuals with no background in programming to create their own web apps while learning the fundamentals of software development in a cutting edge language. Easily digested chapters, while comprehensive enough to explore the whole domain, are aimed at both hobbyists and professionals alike. The reader will not only gain an insight into Dart, but also the technologies behind the web. A firm foundation is laid for further programming studies. Dart is a new, innovative language developed by Google which is poised to take the web by storm. For client side web app development, Dart has many advantages over JavaScript. These include but are not limited to: improved speed, enforcement of programmatic structure, and improved facilities for software reuse. Best of all, Dart is automatically converted to JavaScript so that it works with all web browsers. Dart is a fresh start, without the baggage of the last two decades of the web. Why start learning to program with yesterday’s technology? Teaches you the fundamentals of programming and the technologies behind the web. Utilizes the cutting edge, easy to learn, structured Dart programming language so that your first steps are pointed towards the future of web development. No prior knowledge is required to begin developing your own web apps
Dart is a language developed by Google for creating Web applications. It has advantages over JavaScript including improved speed, enforcement of programmatic structure, and improved facilities for software reuse, and it is automatically coverted to JavaScript so that it works with all Web browsers. This book teaches readers the fundamentals of programming, the technologies behind the Web, the use of Dart to write small to medium size Web apps, and the use of HTML and CSS. It will help readers interpret others' code and enable them to further advance their programming skills. This book is for readers with no background in programming who are interested in Web development
