Imagine Math 3 : Between Culture and Mathematics
Science Fiction, Art and the Fourth Dimension -- From Modernity to Immortality: Art and Mathematics in the Twenties -- Geometrical Models and Imaginations -- From Sinisgalli to Hiroshi Sugimoto -- Mathematical Narratives and the Surrealist Tradition -- Anxious Geometries -- Pasta By Design: The New Geometries of Pasta -- Photos, Objects and 3D Reconstructions -- Geometry, Numbers & Diagrams in the New York Art Scene around 1960 -- The Islands of Benoît Mandeblrot: On the relationship between abstract reasoning and visual imagination -- Fractals and Nervous System -- New Mathematics and Architecture -- In search of the Lost Roots -- Probabilities and Traps of Intuition -- Sand grains and Earthquakes -- Henry Moore and Strings -- Fluid Architecture -- Sagrada Familia -- Fragments of an Existentialist Mathematics -- Living numbers
Imagine mathematics, imagine with the help of mathematics, imagine new worlds, new geometries, new forms. This volume in the series “Imagine Math” casts light on what is new and interesting in the relationships between mathematics, imagination, and culture. The book opens by examining the connections between modern and contemporary art and mathematics, including Linda D. Henderson’s contribution. Several further papers are devoted to mathematical models and their influence on modern and contemporary art, including the work of Henry Moore and Hiroshi Sugimoto. Among the many other interesting contributions are an homage to Benoît Mandelbrot with reference to the exhibition held in New York in 2013 and the thoughts of Jean-Pierre Bourguignon on the art and math exhibition at the Fondation Cartier in Paris. An interesting part is dedicated to the connections between math, computer science and theatre with the papers by C. Bardainne and A. Mondot.  The topics are treated in a way that is rigorous but captivating, detailed but very evocative. This is an all-embracing look at the world of mathematics and culture
