Bio-inspired computing models and algorithms
Ch. 1. A gentle introduction to membrane systems and their computational properties / Alberto Leporati ... [et al.] -- ch. 2. Results on computational complexity in bio-inspired computing / Mario J. Perez-Jimenez ... [et al.] -- ch. 3. Integrative approaches for predicting microRNA function and prioritizing disease-related microRNA using biological interaction networks / Xuan Zhang and Xiangxiang Zeng -- ch. 4. Evolutionary algorithm for solving complex multiobjective optimization problems / Ye Tian and Xingyi Zhang -- ch. 5. A bio-inspired clustering model for anomaly detection in the mining industry / Raymond Chiong ... [et al.] -- ch. 6. Picture generating models based on the splicing operation / K. G. Subramanian, G. Samdanielthompson and N. Gnanamalar David -- ch. 7. Fingerprint minutiae to fixed-length bit-string: a review of recent development / Zhe Jin, Wei-Jing Wong and Andrew Beng Jin Teoh -- ch. 8. Platform for detection of ultra-DNA signals (10-18 mol/L) with DNA probe and nanomaterials / Xun Wang and Ben Hoo Mook -- ch. 9. Deep autoencoders in pattern recognition: a survey / Junfen Chen ... [et al.] -- ch. 10. Genetic algorithm: from promiscuity to monogamy / Ting Yee Lim and Choo Jun Tan.
"Bio-inspired computing (BIC) focuses on the designs and developments of computer algorithms and models based on biological mechanisms and living phenomena. It is now a major subfield of natural computation that leverages on the recent advances in computer science, biology and mathematics. The ideas provide abundant inspiration to construct high-performance computing models and intelligent algorithms, thus enabling powerful tools to solve real-life problems. Written by world-renowned researchers, this compendium covers the most influential topics on BIC, where the newly-obtained algorithms, developments and results are introduced and elaborated. The potential and valuable directions for further research are addressed as well."--
