Fabrication and Characterization in the Micro-Nano Range : New Trends for Two and Three Dimensional Structures
This book shows an update in the field of micro/nano fabrications techniques of two and three dimensional structures as well as ultimate three dimensional characterization methods from the atom range to the micro scale. Several examples are presented showing their direct application in different technological fields such as microfluidics, photonics, biotechnology and aerospace engineering, between others. The effects of the microstructure and topography on the macroscopic properties of the studied materials are discussed, together with a detailed review of 3D imaging techniques. Dr. Andres Fabian Lasagni is the Group Leader of the 'Surface Functionalization Group' at the Fraunhofer Institute for Material and Beam Technology in Dresden, Germany. His main research interests include the fabrication of two and three dimensional structures as well as surface modification using laser processing technologies. Particularly, Dr. Lasagni is developing methods to control micro/nano-scale architectures for different applications. His homepage: http://andreslasagni.t35.com/Dr. Fernando A. Lasagni is the Head of Materials  Processes Department at the Center for Advanced Aerospace Technologies in the Andalusian Foundation for Aerospace Development, Seville, Spain as well as Assistant Professor at the Metallurgy and Materials Engineering Group, Department of Materials and Mechanical Engineering at the Seville University.
This book shows an update in the field of micro/nano fabrications techniques of two and three dimensional structures as well as ultimate three dimensional characterization methods from the atom range to the micro scale. Several examples are presented showing their direct application in different technological fields such as microfluidics, photonics, biotechnology and aerospace engineering, between others. The effects of the microstructure and topography on the macroscopic properties of the studied materials are discussed, together with a detailed review of 3D imaging techniques.
