Handbook of thermal analysis and calorimetry ; 6: Recent advances, techniques and applications
Zaitsau, Christoph Schick, and Florian Heym ; 16. Aluminum alloys; Benjamin Milkereit, Olaf Kessler, and Christoph Schick; 17. Metals and alloys; John Perepezko; 18. Fast scanning chip calorimetry; Christoph Schick and Renè Androsch ; 19. Dilatometry; Martin Hunkel, Holger surm, and Matthias Steinbacher
Modern isoconversional kinetics: From misconceptions to advances; Sergey Vyazovkin; 9. Pharmaceutical applications of thermal analysis; Kohsaku Kawakami ; 10. Thermoanalytical characterization techniques for multiferroic materials; Eva Gil-González, Antonio Perejón, Pedro E. Sánchez-Jiménez, José M. Criado, and Luis A. Pérez-Maqueda; 11. Kinetics and mechanisms of solid-gas reactions; Michèle Pijolat and Loïc Favergeon; 12. Physico-geometric approach to the kinetics of overlapping solid-state reactions; Nobuyoshi Koga; 13. Glass transition and physical aging of confined polymers investigated by calorimetric techniques; Daniele Cangialosi; 14. Chalcogenides for phase-change memory; Jiri Orava and A. Lindsay Greer ; 15. Development of direct and indirect methods for determination of vaporization enthalpies of extremely low volatile compounds; Sergey P. Verevkin, Dzmitry H
Foreword; Sergey Vyazovkin, Nobuyoshi Koga, and Christoph Schick ; 1. Decomposition of organic wastes: Thermal analysis and evolution of volatiles; Rafael Font; 2. Thermal analysis of biobased polymers and composites; Nathanaël Guigo and Nicolas Sbirrazzuoli; 3. Polymer Nanocomposites; Krzysztof Pielichowski and Kinga Pielichowska ; 4. Thermal behavior of chalcogenide glasses; Roman Svoboda and Jiří Málek; 5. Applications of Thermal Analysis to the Study of Phase Change Materials; R. Parameshwaran, A. Sarı, N. Jalaiah, and R. Karunakaran ; 6. Characteristics of Thermal Decomposition of Energetic Materials in the Study of Their Initiation Reactivity; Svatopluk Zeman ; 7. Analysis of Polymer Crystallization by Calorimetry; Maria Laura Di Lorenzo, René Androsch, Alicyn Marie Rhoades, and Maria Cristina Righetti; 8
