Expert F# 4.0
Learn from F♯'s inventor to become an expert in the latest version of this powerful programming language so you can seamlessly integrate functional, imperative, object-oriented, and query programming style flexibly and elegantly to solve any programming problem. Expert F♯ 4.0 will help you achieve unrivaled levels of programmer productivity and program clarity across multiple platforms including Windows, Linux, Android, OSX, and iOS as well as HTML5 and GPUs. F♯ 4.0 is a mature, open source, cross-platform, functional-first programming language which empowers users and organizations to tackle complex computing problems with simple, maintainable, and robust code. Expert F♯ 4.0 is: A comprehensive guide to the latest version of F♯ by the inventor of the language A treasury of F♯ techniques for practical problem-solving An in-depth case book of F♯ applications and F♯ 4.0 concepts, syntax, and features Written by F♯'s inventor and two major F♯ community members, Expert F♯ 4.0 is a comprehensive and in-depth guide to the language and its use. Designed to help others become experts, the book quickly yet carefully describes the paradigms supported by F♯ language, and then shows how to use F♯ elegantly for a practical web, data, parallel and analytical programming tasks. The world's experts in F♯ show you how to program in F♯ the way they do!
Learn from F#'s inventor to become an expert in the latest version of this powerful programming language so you can seamlessly integrate functional, imperative, object-oriented, and query programming style flexibly and elegantly to solve any programming problem. Expert F# 4.0 will help you achieve unrivaled levels of programmer productivity and program clarity across multiple platforms including Windows, Linux, Android, OSX, and iOS as well as HTML5 and GPUs. F# 4.0 is a mature, open source, cross-platform, functional-first programming language which empowers users and organizations to tackle complex computing problems with simple, maintainable, and robust code. Expert F# 4.0 is: A comprehensive guide to the latest version of F# by the inventor of the language A treasury of F# techniques for practical problem-solving An in-depth case book of F# applications and F# 4.0 concepts, syntax, and features Written by F#'s inventor and two major F# community members, Expert F# 4.0 is a comprehensive and in-depth guide to the language and its use. Designed to help others become experts, the book quickly yet carefully describes the paradigms supported by F# language, and then shows how to use F# elegantly for a practical web, data, parallel and analytical programming tasks. The world's experts in F# show you how to program in F# the way they do!
