PHP and MySQL Recipes : A Problem-Solution Approach
Gain instant solutions, including countless pieces of useful code that you can copy and paste into your own applications, giving you answers fast and saving you hours of coding time. You can also use this book as a reference to the most important aspects of the latest PHP scripting language, including the vital functions you know and love from previous versions of PHP, as well as the functions introduced in PHP 7. PHP and MySQL Recipes: A Problem-Solution Approach supplies you with complete code for all of the common coding problems you are likely to face when using PHP and MySQL together in your day-to-day web application development. This invaluable guide includes over 200 recipes and covers numerous topics. What you hold in your hands is the answer to all your PHP 7 needs. Furthermore, this book explains the PHP functionality in detail, including the vastly improved object-oriented capabilities and the new MySQL database extension. PHP and MySQL Recipes will be a useful and welcome companion throughout your career as a web developer, keeping you on the cutting edge of PHP development, ahead of the competition, and giving you all the answers you need, when you need them. What You'll Learn Work with arrays, dates and times, strings, files and directories, and dynamic imaging Write regular expressions in PHP Use the variables and functions found in PHP Who This Book Is For Experienced PHP and MySQL programmers and web developers who have at least some PHP and MySQL programming experience.
1. PHP and MySQL Installation and Configuration -- 2. PHP Objects, Classes and Reflection APIs -- 3. Performing Math Operations -- 4. Working with Arrays -- 5. Dates and Times -- 6. Strings -- 7. Files and Directories -- 8. Dynamic Imaging -- 9. Regular Expressions -- 10. Variables -- 11. Functions -- 12. Web Fundamentals -- 13. Creating and Using Forms -- 14. Markup using XML, RSS, WDDX, SOAP -- 15. Using MySQL Databases and phpMyAdmin.
