Handbook of international trade and transportation
International trade has grown rapidly over the past half century, accommodated by the transportation industry through concomitant growth and technological change. But while the connection between transport and trade flows is clear, the academic literature often looks at these two issues separately. This Handbook is unique in pulling together the key insights of each field while highlighting what we know about their intersection and ideas for future research in this relatively unexamined but growing area of study. After presenting the latest data and modeling techniques used to explain global trade patterns, the chapters address directly the core theme of the Handbook: the intersection of international trade and transportation costs. Other key topics examined include trade facilitation, trade networks, and the role of transport costs in offshoring, foreign investment location, and the role of intermediary firms. The Handbook is an excellent primer on the essential concepts and references in international trade and transport for scholars who may have their primary expertise in one of these areas, but are not as familiar with the other. It will also be an invaluable resource for advanced undergraduate students, graduate students, and other researchers who are relatively new to either field
Contents: 1. International trade and transportation: an introduction / Bruce A. Blonigen and Wesley W. Wilson -- Part I -- Modeling and estimating international trade patterns -- 2. Gravity, distance, and international trade / Scott L. Baier, Amanda Kerr and Yoto V. Yotov -- 3. International trade data and empirical patterns / Peter H. Egger and Yvonne Wolfmayr -- 4. Gravity models in air transport research: a survey and an application / Anming Zhang, Faqin Lin and Yahua Zhang -- Part II -- Transport costs and international trade -- 5. Trade costs and international trade flows: methodologies, data, and empirical evidence / Michael Moore -- 6. Transport costs, trade, and geographic concentration: evidence from Canada / Kristian Behrens and W. Mark Brown -- 7. Offshoring and transport costs / Holger Görg and Aoife Hanley -- 8. Transportation costs and trade for differentiated agricultural products / Dragan Miljkovic -- 9. Environmental issues in international trade and transportation / James J. Corbett and James J. Winebrake -- ParT III -- Agents of international trade -- 10. Firms in international trade / Federico J. Díez, Jesse Mora and Alan C. Spearot -- 11. Trade costs and the role of international trade intermediaries / Bernardo S. Blum, Sebastian Claro, and Ignatius J. Horstmann -- 12. Transportation cost and the geography of foreign investment / Laura Alfaro and Maggie X. Chen -- Part IV -- Logistics -- 13. Trade logistics and seaborne transportation / Wayne K. Talley and Sara Russell Riggs -- 14. Transportation and trade interactions: a trade facilitation perspective / Jerónimo Carballo, Georg Schaur and Christian Volpe Martincus -- Part V -- Transport infrastructure for international trade -- 15. DEA and transportation efficiency / Kevin Hyosoo Park and Young-Tae Chang -- 16. Trade costs, trade, and port efficiency / Bruce A. Blonigen and Wesley W. Wilson -- 17. Getting port governance right / Peter de Langen and Periklis Saragiotis -- 18. Vessel size, investments and trade / Lixian Fan, Xinlu Li, Sijie Zhang and Zimeng Zhang -- Part IV -- Transport networks in international trade -- 19. Trade and transport modes: the search for global connectivity through transport networks / Theo Notteboom -- 20. Benefits, challenges and trends for regional transport connectivity in Asia / Peter O'Neill -- 21. Euro-Asian overland transport links / Miroslav N. Jovanovi?, Jelena Damnjanovi?, and Jovan Njegi? -- 22. Panama canal / William W. Wilson and Javier D. Ho -- 23. Competition and the container liner shipping industry / Hilde Meersman, Christa Sys, Eddy Van de Voorde and Thierry Vanelslander -- Index.
