Learn Autodesk Inventor 2018 Basics : 3D Modeling, 2D Graphics, and Assembly Design
Get started with the basics of part modeling, assembly modeling, presentations, and drawings in this step-by-step tutorial on Autodesk Inventor fundamentals. Next, this book teaches you some intermediate-level topics such as additional part modeling tools, sheet metal modeling, top-down assembly features, assembly joints, and dimension and annotations. Engaging explanations, practical examples, and step-by-step instructions make this tutorial book complete. Once you have read Learn Autodesk Inventor 2018 Basicsyou will be able to use Autodesk Inventor for 3D modeling, 2D drawings, finite element analysis, mold design, and other purposes, just like a design professional. You will gain all the basic information and essential skills you need to work in Autodesk Inventor immediately.What You'll LearnCarry out virtual 3D modeling for your next 3D printing projects Design molds for 3D printing and other projects Generate 2D drawingsWho This Book Is ForNovice users of Autodesk Inventor. T. Kishore is an experienced and savvy trainer, engineer and prolific author of several books on Autodesk and other tools for engineering, design, graphics, 3D printing and more.
Get started with the basics of part modeling, assembly modeling, presentations, and drawings in this step-by-step tutorial on Autodesk Inventor fundamentals. Next, this book teaches you some intermediate-level topics such as additional part modeling tools, sheet metal modeling, top-down assembly features, assembly joints, and dimension and annotations.  Engaging explanations, practical examples, and step-by-step instructions make this tutorial book complete. Once you have read Learn Autodesk Inventor 2018 Basics you will be able to use Autodesk Inventor for 3D modeling, 2D drawings, finite element analysis, mold design, and other purposes, just like a design professional. You will gain all the basic information and essential skills you need to work in Autodesk Inventor immediately. You will: Carry out virtual 3D modeling for your next 3D printing projects Design molds for 3D printing and other projects Generate 2D drawings Apply basic finite element analysis for figuring stress, tension, and optimized dimensions for your 3D printing projects
