The adventure of the Large Hadron Collider : from the big bang to the Higgs boson
"An introduction to the world of quarks and leptons, and of their interactions governed by fundamental symmetries of nature, as well as an introduction to the connection that exists between worlds of the infinitesimally small and the infinitely large. The book starts with a simple presentation of the theoretical framework, the so-called Standard Model, which evolved gradually since the 1960's. This is followed by its main experimental successes, and its weaknesses and incompleteness. We proceed then with the incredible story of the Large Hadron Collider at CERN - the largest purely scientific project ever realized. What follows is the discussion of the conception, design and construction of the detectors of size and complexity without precedent in scientific history. The book summarizes the main physics results obtained firstly during the initial phase of operation of the LHC, which culminated in the discovery of the Higgs boson in 2012 (the Nobel Prize in Physics in 2013). This is followed by the results obtained in subsequent years up to 2020, consolidating and expanding these findings. These successes have undoubtedly made CERN the focal point, both of intellectual endeavor and technological innovation in this domain of science. In the last chapter we describe the plans for LHC for the next 15 years and the possible evolution of the field and collider projects considered. The authors are researchers from CNRS, CEA, and CERN, all fully engaged in the LHC program: D Denegri in the CMS experiment, C Guyot, A Hoecker and L Roos in the ATLAS experiment. Some of them are involved since the inception of the project. They give a lively inside view of this amazing scientific and human adventure"--
The standard model of elementary particle physics -- Key experiments establishing the standard model -- What the standard model cannot explain -- How could new physics look like? -- Back to the Big Bang -- The LHC -- What is a particle detector? -- The ATLAS and CMS experiments -- LHC start-up and data taking -- Data analysis -- The Higgs boson : search and discovery -- Testing the standard model -- The quest for new physics -- The physics of flavour and of hot & dense matter : the LHCb and ALICE experiments -- Looking ahead.
