The whats of a scientific life
Contents Preface Acknowledgements About the Author Part I Introduction 1 What Is the Scientific Life? 2 What Is Physics? 3 What Is Chemistry? 4 What Is Biology? Part II Scientific Career Choices: What to Do When Faced With ... 5 Junctions 6 Crossroads 7 Roundabouts 8 Traffic Lights 9 Obstacles 10 Mountains Part III Examples of What Science Delivers or Will Deliver in the Future 11 With Physics We Can See Atoms 12 Acceleration of Chemical Reactions by Catalysts: A Wonder of the Natural World 13 Understanding Colour: Paintings, Camouflage, Clothes and Cosmetics 14 The Universe Exists and the Big Bang 'Start' of the Universe: The 'Red Shift' and the Expansion of the Universe 15 Is There Life Elsewhere in the Universe? The Role of the Square Kilometre Array Radio Astronomy Project 16 Predicting Climate Change on Earth Part IV Science and Mathematics: Across the Disciplines and Side by Side With Engineering 17 Science and Mathematics: Newtonian Dynamics and Molecular Dynamics 18 Science across the Disciplines: Curiosity Respects No Science Subject Boundaries 19 Science Side by Side with Engineering Part V Science Is a Process 20 Successes Involve Striving to Avoid Failures in Science Part VI A Trend: The Coming Together of the Sciences and the Social Sciences 21 The International Council for Science: A Very Important Event Appendices My Reviews of Books Regarding the Whats of a Scientific Life Appendix A1: The Social Function of Science, by J. D. Bernal Appendix A2: The Effective Scientist: A Handy Guide to a Successful Scientific Career, by Corey J. A. Bradshaw Appendix A3: Scientific Leadership, by J. W. (Hans) Niemantsverdriet and Jan-Karel Felderhof Appendix A4: Managing Science: Developing Your Research, Leadership and Management Skills, by K. Peach Appendix A5: Writing Chemistry Patents and Intellectual Property: a Practical Guide, by Francis J. Waller Appendix A6: The Scientific Method: Reflections from a Practitioner, by M. di Ventra
