Beginning PowerApps : The Non-Developers Guide to Building Business Mobile Applications
Build mobile apps that specifically target your company’s unique business needs, with the same ease of writing a simple spreadsheet! With this book, you will build business apps designed to work with your company's systems and databases, without having to enlist the expertise of costly, professionally trained software developers. In Beginning PowerApps, author and business applications expert Tim Leung guides you step-by-step through the process of building your own mobile app. He assumes no technical background, although if you have worked with Excel, you are one step closer. He guides you through scenarios, such as what to do if you have existing databases with complex data structures and how to write screens that can connect to those data. You will come away with an understanding of how to set up screen navigation, manipulate data from within apps, and write solutions to perform specific tasks. What You'll Learn: Connect with data Write formulas Visualize your data through charts Work with global positioning systems (GPS) Build flows Import and export data Manage offline scenarios Develop custom application programming interfaces (API) This book is for beginners and non-developers, and assumes no prior knowledge of PowerApps. Tim Leung is a Microsoft certified professional analyst and programmer with more than 10 years' experience architecting, designing, and developing applications. In his current role, he is a technical manager for a software company in England. Tim is an active member of the UK developer community and often presents on technical topics. He is a chartered member of the British Computer Society and holds a BSc degree in Information Technology. Tim’s most recent publication is Visual Studio Lightswitch 2015 (Apress)
Part I: Getting Started -- 1: Introducing PowerApps -- 2: Subscribing to PowerApps -- 3: Creating your First App -- 4: Sharing Apps -- Part II: Refining Your Application -- 5: Exploring Data Sources -- 6: Using Formulas -- 7: Customizing Screens -- 8: Using Controls -- 9: Working with Data -- 10: Working with Images -- 11: Mapping Data -- 12: Using Charts -- 13: Securing Apps -- Part III: Maintaining Your Application -- 14: Importing and Exporting Data -- 15: Using Flow -- Part IV: Extending Your Application -- 16: Working Offline -- 17: Creating Custom Data Connectors -- 18: Data Models
