Recent Advances in Computational and Applied Mathematics
1. Fifty Years of Stiffness -- 2. Efficient Global Methods for the Numerical Solution of Nonlinear Systems of Two Point Boundary Value Problems -- 3. Advances on Collocation Based Numerical Methods for Ordinary Differential Equations and Volterra Integral Equations -- 4. Basic Methods for Computing Special Functions -- 5. Melt Spinning: Optimal Control and Stability Issues -- 6. On Orthonormal Polynomial Solutions of the Riesz System in -- 7. Brief Survey on the CP Methods for the Schrödinger Equation -- 8. Symplectic Partitioned Runge-Kutta Methods for the Numerical Integration of Periodic and Oscillatory Problems -- 9. On the Klein-Gordon Equation on Some Examples of Conformally Flat Spin 3-Manifolds -- 10. A Survey of hp-Adaptive Strategies for Elliptic Partial Differential Equations -- 11. Vectorized Solution of ODEs in Matlab with Control of Residual and Error -- 12. Forecasting Equations in Complex-Quaternionic Setting -- 13. Symplectic Exponentially-Fitted Modified Runge-Kutta Methods of the Gauss Type: Revisited.
This multi-author contributed proceedings volume contains recent advances in several areas of Computational and Applied Mathematics. Each review is written by well known leaders of Computational and Applied Mathematics. The book gives a comprehensive account of a variety of topics including – Efficient Global Methods for the Numerical Solution of Nonlinear Systems of Two point Boundary Value Problems; Advances on collocation based numerical methods for Ordinary Differential Equations and Volterra Integral Equations; Basic Methods for Computing Special Functions, Melt Spinning: Optimal Control and Stability Issues; Brief survey on the CP methods for the Schrödinger equation; Symplectic Partitioned Runge-Kutta methods for the numerical integration of periodic and oscillatory problems. Recent Advances in Computational and Applied Mathematics is aimed at advanced undergraduates and researchers who are working in these fast moving fields.
