Environmental microbiology for engineers
"Microbiology and Biotechnology are related to such areas of human activity as Food, Agriculture, Medicine, Industry, Infrastructure, Energy, Information, and Defence. That is why the courses and the textbooks in Microbiology and Biotechnology are often overloaded with data and knowledge. So, it is difficult for the students in Civil and Environmental Engineering to select and learn microbiological knowledge, which is necessary for their profession. This textbook is specifically intended for undergraduate (Bachelor) and graduate (MSc, MEng and PhD programs) students of the civil and environmental engineering schools of the universities. It is providing useful for engineers theoretical and practical understanding of microorganisms and their functions in civil and environmental engineering. This textbook gives also quantitative description of applied microbiological processes and their engineering design. The textbook covers such essential topics as diversity and functions of microorganisms in environment and environmental engineering systems, structure and functions of microbial ecosystems, applied microbial genetics and molecular biology, environmental bioengineering, microbiology of water and wastewater treatment, biotreatment of solid waste and polluted air, soil bioremediation, microbial applications in civil and geotechnical engineering, microbial construction materials, environmental safety and biosafety of microbial biotechnologies, biocorrosion, biodeterioration, biofouling, and artificial life-support closed ecosystems. The key benefits of this textbook are essential, not excessive microbiological knowledge covering all topics that are important for civil and environmental engineers, a set of the quizzes and tutorials to the chapters, and numerous exam questions and their solutions for self-evaluation by the students and for the written examination of the whole course knowledge by the lecturers. The principal intention of these tutorials, quizzes, and exam questions with the solutions is to help students and engineers to perform design calculations of the microbial engineering activities. proper combination of microbiological and biotechnology knowledge that is adapted for the students in civil and environmental engineering incudes the quizzes, tutorial questions and their solutions for better engineering understanding, for self-assessment by the students, and for continuous assessment by the lecturers incudes exam questions and solutions for self- ...
