Pro Couchbase Server
This is a hands-on guide for developers and administrators who want to take advantage of the power and scalability of Couchbase Server in their applications. This book covers from the basics of NoSQL database design, through application development, to Couchbase Server administration. Influenced by the growing needs of web-scale applications, NoSQL databases such as Couchbase Server provide new approaches to scalability, reliability, and performance. With the power and flexibility of Couchbase Server, the reader can model data and change the data model at any time. This book shows what is possible and helps in taking full advantage of Couchbase Server and all the performance and scalability that it offers. It will help the reader design and develop a document database using Couchbase Server, deploy and maintain Couchbase Server, and provide the tools to scale out applications as needed. --
Pro Couchbase Server is a hands-on guide for developers and administrators who want to take advantage of the power and scalability of Couchbase Server in their applications. This book takes you from the basics of NoSQL database design, through application development, to Couchbase Server administration. Never have document databases been so powerful and performant.  The NoSQL movement has fundamentally changed the database world in recent years. Influenced by the growing needs of web-scale applications, NoSQL databases such as Couchbase Server provide new approaches to scalability, reliability, and performance. With the power and flexibility of Couchbase Server, you can model your data however you want, and easily change the data model any time you want. Pro Couchbase Server shows what is possible and helps you take full advantage of Couchbase Server and all the performance and scalability that it offers.  Helps you design and develop a document database using Couchbase Server. Takes you through deploying and maintaining Couchbase Server. Gives you the tools to scale out your application as needed
