Industrial applications of biopolymers and their environmental impact
Modification of polylactic acid (PLA) and its industrial applications / A. Al-Mamun, M. Nikusahle, M. Feldmann and H.-P. Heim -- Grain waste product as potential bio-fiber resources / A. Al-Mamun -- Bio-based polyamides / M. Feldmann -- PHB production, properties, and applications / M.A.K.M. Zahari, M.D.H. Beg, N. Abdullah and N.D. Al-Jbour -- Polyvinyl alcohol and polyvinyl acetate / Md. S. Islam -- Starch and starch based polymers (TPS) / J. Fuchs and H.-P. Heim -- Chemistry of cellulose and cellulose based polymers / M.D.H Beg, K. Najwa and J.O. Akindoyo -- Chitin and chitosan and associated polymers / Md. S. Rahaman, J.M.M. Islam, Md. S. Manir, Md. R. Islam and M.A. Khan -- Carrageenan : a future biopolymer / F. Adam, Md. A. Hamdan and S.H. Abu Bakar -- Natural rubber and bio-based thermoplastic elastomer / Wei Jiang -- A life cycle assessment of protein-based bioplastics for food packaging applications / A. Jones, S. Sharma and S. Mani -- Bio-polyurethane and others / M.A. Sawpan -- Keratin-based bioplastic from chicken feathers : synthesis, properties and applications / A. Gupta, B.Y. Alashwal, Md. S. Bala and N. Ramakrishnan.
"Biopolymers represent a carbon emission neutral solution: they are green, eco-friendly, with wide usage for packaging, in the automotive industry, in biomedical engineering, pulp and paper industries, and for the development of new building materials. The book describes the various source raw materials and their properties. The polymerization process, the chemical structure, properties and relationship between structure and properties of biopolymers are also described. This book identifies the drawbacks of biopolymers and how to overcome them by modification methods to enhance compatibility, flexibility, enhanced physicochemical properties, thermal stability, impact response, and rigidity etc. The book bridges the gap between the end-user and researcher, which makes it different from other books on the subject"--
