Geothermal power plants : principles, applications, case studies and environmental impact
Ron DiPippo, Professor Emeritus at the University of Massachusetts Dartmouth, is a world-regarded geothermal expert. This single resource covers all aspects of the utilization of geothermal energy for power generation from fundamental scientific and engineering principles. The thermodynamic basis for the design of geothermal power plants is at the heart of the book and readers are clearly guided on the process of designing and analysing the key types of geothermal energy conversion systems. Its practical emphasis is enhanced by the use of case studies from real plants that increase the reader's understanding of geothermal energy conversion and provide a unique compilation of hard-to-obtain data and experience. An important new chapter covers Environmental Impact and Abatement Technologies, including gaseous and solid emissions; water, noise and thermal pollutions; land usage; disturbance of natural hydrothermal manifestations, habitats and vegetation; minimisation of CO2 emissions and environmental impact assessment. The book is illustrated with over 240 photographs and drawings. Nine chapters include practice problems, with solutions, which enable the book to be used as a course text. Also includes a definitive worldwide compilation of every geothermal power plant that has operated, unit by unit, plus a concise primer on the applicable thermodynamics. * Engineering principles are at the heart of the book, with complete coverage of the thermodynamic basis for the design of geothermal power systems * Practical applications are backed up by an extensive selection of case studies that show how geothermal energy conversion systems have been designed, applied and exploited in practice * World renowned geothermal expert DiPippo has including a new chapter on Environmental Impact and Abatement Technology in this new edition
PART ONE RESOURCE IDENTIFICATION AND DEVELOPMENT: 1. Geology of Geothermal Regions; 2. Exploration Strategies and Techniques; 3. Geothermal Well Drilling; 4. Reservoir Engineering; PART TWO GEOTHERMAL POWER GENERATING SYSTEMS: 5. Single-Flash Steam Power Plants. 6. Double-Flash Steam Power Plants; 7. Dry-Steam Power Plants. 8. Binary Cycle Power Plants. 9. Advanced Geothermal Energy Conversion Systems; 10. Exergy Analysis Applied to Geothermal Power Systems; PART THREE GEOTHERMAL POWER PLANT CASE STUDIES: 11. Larderello Dry-Steam Power Plants, Tuscany, Italy; 12. The Geysers Dry-Steam Power Plants, Sonoma and Lake Counties, California, U.S.A. 13. Cerro Prieto Power Station, Baja California Norte, Mexico. 14. Hatchobaru Power Station, Oita Prefecture, Kyushu, Japan. 15. Mutnovsky Flash-Steam Power Plant, Kamchakta Peninsula, Russia. 16. Miravalles Power Station, Guanacaste Province, Costa Rica. 17. Heber Binary Plants, Imperial Valley, California, USA; 18. Magmamax Binary Power Plant, East Mesa, Imperial Valley California, USA; PART FOUR: 19. Environmental Impact and Abatement Technology
