Neutrosophic theories in communication, management and information technology
"Contributing to the fast growing new field of neutrosophy, this book provides a significant collection of unedited articles covering the latest ongoing research area. Neutrosopy is above all a new view on modelling, tailored to effectively address the uncertainties inherent of the real world. In short, Neutrosophy supersedes in logics the binary approach of true or false by introducing a third state: neutral, which can be also interpreted as indeterminate, uncertain, inconsistent .... Development of neutrosophy since its conception by Smarandache in 1988 exponentially grows by conceptual extensions of logics, measure, sets, graphs, as well as practical applications in namely all fields. It can be think as generalization of fuzzy logic and its variants like intuitionistic fuzzy logic. Registered in wide collection of books on this promising field, here we deliver to researchers, lecturers and postgraduate students pursuing research on neutrosophic a set of eighteen unreleased articles on state of the art theoretical developments, applications and understanding of neutrosophy"--
Product acceptance determination using similarity measure index by neutrosophic statistics / Muhammad Aslam and Rehan Ahmed Khan Sherwani -- New concepts of strongly edge irregular interval-valued neutrosophic graphs / A.A.Talebi, Hossein Rashmanlou and Masoomeh Ghasemi -- The link between neutrosophy and learning : through the related concepts of representation and compression / Philippe Schweizer -- Neutrosophic soft cubic M-subalgebras of B-algebras / Mohsin Khalid, Neha Andaleeb Khalid and Hasan Khalid -- Alpha, beta and gamma product of neutrosophic graphs / Nasir Shah, Said Broumi, Abdul Raheem and Tahir Imran -- Neutrosophic cubic normal ideal and neutrosophic cubic closed normal ideal of PS-algebra / Mohsin Khalid, Hasan khalid and Neha Andaleeb Khalid -- Neutrosophic multisets : an overview / Vakkas Uluçay -- Neutrosophy as a model for knowledge : the influence of representative models on thinking / Philippe Schweizer -- When neutrosophic theory meets three-way decisions / Rui Ren, Chao Zhang and Deyu Li -- Neutrosophic economic order quantity model with more than one price breaks / R. Surya, M. Mullai and G. Madhan Kumar -- General non-square systems of linear equations in single-valued triangular neutrosophic number environment / S.A. Edalatpanah -- Hesitant neutrosophic soft set relations / Abhijit Saha -- Computer application of neutrosophic set operations / S. Saranya, M. Vigneshwaran, Said Broumi -- Triangular bipolar neutrosophic based transportation problem / Avishek Chakraborty -- Studying neutrosophic variables / Rafif Alhabib and Ahmad Salama -- Decision making for logistics center location selection in trapezoidal neutrosophic environment / Kalyan Mondal and Surapati Pramanik -- Weighted similarity measure and decision making model for clinical application of single valued neutrosophic set / R.Binu and P. Isaac -- Rough neutrosophic set : an overview / Surapati Pramanik -- Some new concepts on normalized SVTN-number and multiple criteria decision making / İrfan Deli and Emel Kırmızı Öztürk.
