Unboxing Android USB : A Hands-On Approach with Real World Examples
Unboxing Android USB focuses on apps that use USB. This book covers everything starting from simple tasks like managing media with USB to complex tasks like Android ADB and developing application which exploit the potential of USB framework. With use cases that help developers build real world apps in real-time utilizing the advanced features of USB framework Unboxing Android USB tries to cover every single aspect of the app development cycle in totality. Unboxing Android USB helps you learn newly introduced android open accessory protocol with unique examples such as using USB Keyboard with Android device without USB host mode enabled and switching from MTP to MSC. The book is organized based on the USB functions, with each chapter explaining different USB classes available in Android. The functionalities are explained by starting from the USB specification followed by block diagrams that explain different blocks available in that USB class, followed by sequence diagram that elucidates flow of control and data. Each chapter has a unique sample Android application that uses the particular USB function
This book covers everything about USB on Android from different USB classes supported in device mode to the USB host framework that manages USB device connected to an Android platform. Each chapter will explain USB class specification before exploring how the functionality (class) is implemented in Android. This gives a clean perspective on what the USB specification demands and how it can be implemented on Android. The primary audiences of this book are application developers and engineers who do hands on work with Android. This book is for an application developer who has an APP idea with USB and wonders how to implement it. It will be a definite guide for the developer to help manage USB on Android. Student and engineers can use this as a do-it-yourself reference book as it explains different blocks of the Android USB framework from application level to the kernel
