Pro Spring : Fourth Edition
Pro Spring updates the perennial bestseller with the latest that the Spring Framework 4 has to offer. Now in its fourth edition, this popular book is by far the most comprehensive and definitive treatment of Spring available. With Pro Spring, you?ll learn Spring basics and core topics, and share the authors? insights and real?world experiences with remoting, Hibernate, and EJB. Beyond the basics, you'll learn how to leverage the Spring Framework to build the various tiers or parts of an enterprise Java application: transactions, web and presentation tiers, deployment, and much more. A full sample application allows you to apply many of the technologies and techniques covered in this book and see how they work together. The agile, lightweight, open-source Spring Framework continues to be the de facto leading enterprise Java application development framework for today's Java programmers and developers. It works with other leading open-source, agile, and lightweight Java technologies such as Hibernate, Groovy, MyBatis, and more. Spring now works with Java EE and JPA 2 as well. After reading this definitive book, you'll be armed with the power of Spring to build complex Spring applications, top to bottom
Pro Spring updates the perennial bestseller with the latest that the Spring Framework 4 has to offer. Now in its fourth edition, this popular book is by far the most comprehensive and definitive treatment of Spring available. With Pro Spring, you’ll learn Spring basics and core topics, and share the authors’ insights and real-world experiences with remoting, Hibernate, and EJB. Beyond the basics, you'll learn how to leverage the Spring Framework to build the various tiers or parts of an enterprise Java application: transactions, web and presentation tiers, deployment, and much more. A full sample application allows you to apply many of the technologies and techniques covered in this book and see how they work together. The agile, lightweight, open-source Spring Framework continues to be the de facto leading enterprise Java application development framework for today's Java programmers and developers. It works with other leading open-source, agile, and lightweight Java technologies such as Hibernate, Groovy, MyBatis, and more. Spring now works with Java EE and JPA 2 as well. After reading this definitive book, you'll be armed with the power of Spring to build complex Spring applications, top to bottom
