Social responsibility in the information age : issues and controversies
Understanding social responsibility issues in the information age / Gurpreet S. Dhillon -- The societal impact of the World Wide Web : key challenges for the 21st century / Janice M. Burn, Karen D. Loch -- Why do we do it if we know it's wrong? A structural model of software piracy / Darryl A. Seale -- Component-based development : issues of data protection / Mark G. Lycett, Athanasia Pouloudi -- Internet privacy : interpreting key issues / Gurpreet S. Dhillon, Trevor T. Moores -- Privacy and the internet : the case of DoubleClick, Inc. / Scott Chapman, Gurpreet S. Dhillon -- Electronic commerce and data privacy : the impact of privacy concerns on electronic commerce use and regulatory preferences / Sandra C. Henderson, Charles A. Snyder, Terry Anthony Byrd -- Aggression on the networks : an Australian viewpoint / William Hutchinson, Matthew Warren -- Cyberspace ethics and information warfare / Matthew Warren, William Hutchinson
Policies for the prevention of repetitive strain injury among computer users : a moral analysis / N. Ben Fairweather -- Social issues in electronic commerce : implications for policy makers / Anastasia Papazafeiropoulou, Athanasia Pouloudi -- E-commerce taxation issues : a balanced perspective and options for resolution / Mahesh S. Raisinghani, Dan S. Petty -- Manufacturing social responsibility benchmarks in the competitive intelligence age / James Douglas Orton -- Strategic and ethical issues in outsourcing information technologies / Randall C. Reid, Mario Pascalev -- Social responsibility in IS/IT project management / Joseph T. Gilbert -- Self-employed and small business computer users : challenges and directions for progress / Phil Carter -- On the role of human morality in information system security : from the problems of descriptivism to non-descriptive foundations / Mikko T. Siponen -- Aspects of a viable social responsibility program in the information age / Gurpreet S. Dhillon
