Ground penetrating radar : theory and applications
Ground-penetrating radar (GPR) is a rapidly developing field that has seen tremendous progress over the past 15 years. The development of GPR spans aspects of geophysical science, technology, and a wide range of scientific and engineering applications. It is the breadth of applications that has made GPR such a valuable tool in the geophysical consulting and geotechnical engineering industries, has lead to its rapid development, and inspired new areas of research in academia. The topic of GPR has gone from not even being mentioned in geophysical texts ten years ago to being the focus of hundreds of research papers and special issues of journals dedicated to the topic. The explosion of primary literature devoted to GPR technology, theory and applications, has lead to a strong demand for an up-to-date synthesis and overview of this rapidly developing field. Because there are specifics in the utilization of GPR for different applications, a review of the current state of development of the applications along with the fundamental theory is required. This book will provide sufficient detail to allow both practitioners and newcomers to the area of GPR to use it as a handbook and primary research reference
PART I: Ground penetrating radar (GPR) principles. Electromagnetic principles of ground penetrating radar / A.P. Annan -- Electrical and magnetic properties of rocks, soils and fluids / Nigel J. Cassidy -- Ground penetrating radar systems and design / Steven Koppenjan -- Antennas / David J. Daniels -- Ground penetrating radar data processing, modelling and analysis / Nigel J. Cassidy -- -- PART II: Environmental applications. Soils, peatlands, and biomonitoring / James A. Doolittle and John R. Butnor -- The contribution of ground penetrating radar to water resource research / Lee Slater and Xavier Comas -- Contaminant mapping / J.D. Redman -- -- PART III: Earth science applications. Ground penetrating radar in aeolian dune sands / Charlie Bristow -- Coastal environments / Ilya V. Buynevich, Harry M. Jol, and Duncan M. FitzGerald -- Advances in fluvial sedimentology using GPR / John Bridge -- Glaciers and ice sheets / Steven A. Arcone -- -- PART IV: Engineering and societal applications. NDT transportation / Timo Saarenketo -- Landmine and unexploded ordnance detection and classification with ground penetrating radar / Alexander Yarovoy -- GPR archaeometry / Dean Goodman ... [et al.]
