Inorganic Chemistry in Tables
The present supplement to Inorganic Chemistry courses is developed in the form of reference schemes, presenting the information on one or several related element derivatives and their mutual transformations within one double-sided sheet. The compounds are placed from left to right corresponding to the increase in the formal oxidation number of the element considered. For each distinct oxidation state the upper position in the column is occupied by an oxide, its hydrated forms, followed then by basic (and oxo-) and normal salts. The position of each compound in this scheme is unambiguously determined in this approach by the central atom oxidation number (in the horizontal direction) and the nature of ligand (in the vertical one), which simplifies considerably the search for necessary information. The mutual transformations are displayed by arrows accompanied by the reagents or other factors responsible for the reaction (red arrows mean oxidation, green arrows mean reduction, black arrows - if the oxidation number is not changed). Modern training programs require the mastering of a tremendous amount of data. The present tables should serve as a useful addition to textbooks and lectures.  Dr. Nataliya Turova is Senior Research of Inorganic Chemistry at Lomonosov Moscow State University. Her field of research comprises chemistry of coordinated compounds of metals with organic ligands. Her main work concerns investigating synthesis, physical and chemical properties and structure of metal alkoxides as well as theoretical principles of their use for  the preparation of oxides by sol-gel method. She is the author of more than 400 articles published in Russian and international academic journals among them Polyhedron, J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun., Dalton Trans., Inorg. Chem. Commun., Inorg. Chim. Acta, Eur. J. Inorg. Chem., Z. Anorg. Chem., J. Sol-Gel Sci. Techn., J. Mater. Sci. Based on Dr. Turova's longstanding teaching experience in inorganic chemistry to students and postgraduates she wrote the reference- and schoolbook 'Inorganic Chemistry in Tables' by which she aimed to simplify for the reader the searching of information scattered among handbooks, monographs or articles and making logical connections between separate binding classes, methods of their synthesis and further transformations. In the last 30 years the 'Tables' were regularly reissued in Russia, were published in Japan (Kodansha Ltd., 1981) and are successfully used by students, postgraduates, lecturers and researchers of various specialties. In 2009 she prepared an abridged version of the 'Tables' provided for schools of profound learning chemistry.
