Handbook of inclusive innovation : the role of organizations, markets and communities in social innovation
Contents: Part I: Introduction -- 1. Inclusion and innovation : a call to action / Gerard George, Ted Baker, Paul Tracey and Havovi Joshi -- Part II: Social innovation in practice -- 2. A silent evolution : innovative and inclusive narratives on sustainability / Ana Cristina Campos Marques -- 3. Climate change and social innovation / Christopher Wright and Daniel Nyberg -- 4. Problem, person, and pathway : a framework for social innovators / Julie Battilana, Brittany Butler, Marissa Kimsey, Johanna Mair, Christopher Marquis and Christian Seelos -- 5. Inclusion and innovation in healthcare / Anita M McGahan -- 6. How do we know when social innovation works? A review and contingency model of social impact assessment / Greg Molecke and Anne-Claire Pache -- Part III: Community and place -- 7. Indigenous social innovation : what is distinctive? and a research agenda / Ana María Peredo, Murdith McLean, Crystal Tremblay -- 8. Urban innovation : at the nexus of urban policy and entrepreneurship / Jeffrey A. Robinson, Amol Joshi, Lutisha Vickerie-Dearman and Todd Inouye -- 9. Community social innovation : taking a long view on community enterprise / Neil Stott, Michelle Fava and Natalie Slawinski -- 10. Collective social innovation : leveraging custodianship, tradition and place on fogo island / M. Tina Dacin and Peter A. Dacin -- Part IV: Systems, institutions, and infrastructure -- 11. Coordinating infrastructure changes to meet retiring baby boomers' needs / David Souder -- 12. Sustainable technology-enabled innovations for ageing-in-place : the Singapore example / Hwee-Pink Tan and Hwee-Xian Tan -- 13. How firms bring social innovation and efficiency to the global effort to recover from disasters / Luis Ballesteros -- 14. The lack of public goods in emergent economies : a call for research and a case study of innovative organisational designs / Nuno Gil -- 15. Scaling up of social innovations : an institutional framework / Silvia Dorado and Pablo Fernández -- 16. Social innovation as institutional work / Warren Nilsson -- 17. Challenges for global supply chains and opportunities for social innovation / Yong H. Kim and Gerald F. Davis -- Part V: Individuals, organizations and organizing -- 18. Emotions as the glue, the fuel and the rust of social innovation / Charlene Zietsma and Madeline Toubiana -- 19. Income inequality : consequences and implications for social innovation / Xiang Zhou and Jason D. Shaw -- 20. Frugal innovation and social innovation : linked paths to achieving inclusion sustainably / Yasser Bhatti and Jaideep Prabhu -- 21. Climate change and entrepreneurship / Elizabeth Embry, Jessica Jones and Jeff York -- 22. A framework for sustaining hybridity in social enterprises : combining differentiating and integrating / Marya Besharov, Wendy Smith and Tiffany Darabi -- 23. Organizing for global change / Yves Plourde -- Part VI : Networks and social change -- 24. Collaborative governance / Ann Florini -- 25. Inclusive innovation through alliance networks / Arno Kourula -- 26. Social entrepreneurs as network orchestrators : a framework and research agenda on networks and leadership in the context of social innovation / Christian Busch and Harry Barkema -- 27. Empowerment, social innovation and social change / Helen M Haugh and Maggie O'Carroll -- Index.
Offering a comprehensive review of contemporary research on inclusive innovation, chapters address the systemic, structural issues that present the 'grand challenges' of our time. With 27 contributions from 57 expert scholars, this Handbook highlights both emerging practices and scalable solutions. Acting as a call to action, the chapters place social impact at the heart of theory and practice, providing fresh insight into global issues and practical solutions. Organized into five distinct sections to reflect current theoretical approaches and frameworks, contributions cover social innovation in practice; community and place; systems, institutions and infrastructure; individuals, organizations and organizing, and networks and social change. This Handbook emphasizes the fundamental shift needed in management scholarship to address global problems and achieve social impact by working towards the UN's Sustainable Development Goals. This will be an invaluable resource for those championing social inclusion in both research and practice, including innovation researchers and management scholars more broadly
