Spring 5 Recipes : A Problem-Solution Approach
Solve all your Spring 5 problems using complete and real-world code examples. When you start a new project, you’ll be able to copy the code and configuration files from this book, and then modify them for your needs. This can save you a great deal of work over creating a project from scratch. The recipes in Spring 5 Recipes cover Spring fundamentals such as Spring IoC container, Spring AOP/ AspectJ, and more. Other recipes include Spring enterprise solutions for topics such as Spring Java EE integration, Spring Integration, Spring Batch, Spring Remoting, messaging, transactions, and working with big data and the cloud using Hadoop and MongoDB. Finally, Spring web recipes cover Spring MVC, other dynamic scripting, integration with the popular Grails Framework (and Groovy), REST/web services, and more. You’ll also see recipes on new topics such as Spring Framework 5, reactive Spring, Spring 5 microservices, the functional web framework and much more. This book builds upon the best-selling success of the previous editions and focuses on the latest Spring Framework features for building enterprise Java applications.  You will: Get re-usable code recipes and snippets for core Spring, annotations and other development tools Access Spring MVC for web development Work with Spring REST and microservices for web services development and integration into your enterprise Java applications Use Spring Batch, NoSQL and big data for building and integrating various cloud computing services and resources Integrate Java Enterprise Edition and other Java APIs for use in Spring Use Grails code and much more
1. Spring Development Tools -- 2. Spring Core Tasks -- 3. Spring MVC -- 4. Spring REST -- 5. Spring MVC - Async Processing -- 6. Spring Social -- 7. Spring Security -- 8. Spring Mobile -- 9. Data Access -- 10. Spring Transaction Management -- 11. Spring Batch -- 12. Spring with NoSQL -- 13. Spring Java Enterprise Services and Remoting Technologies -- 14. Spring Messaging -- 15. Spring Integration -- 16. Spring Testing -- 17. Grails -- Appendix A. Spring Deployment to the Cloud -- Appendix B. Caching
