Oracle Certified Professional Java SE 8 Programmer Exam 1Z0-809 : Comprehensive OCPJP 8 Certification Guide
The OCPJP 8 Exam: Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) -- Java Class Design -- Advanced Java Class Design -- Generics and Collections Lambda Built-in Functional Interfaces -- Java Stream API -- Exceptions and Assertions -- Use Java SE 8 Date/Time API -- Java I/O Fundamentals -- Java File I/O (NIO.2) -- Java Concurrency -- Building Database Applications with JDBC -- Localization -- Full-length Mock Exam.
This book is a comprehensive, step-by-step and one-stop guide for the Java SE 8 Programmer II exam (IZ0-809). Salient features of this book include: 100% coverage of the exam topics, a full-length mock exam, practice exam questions, exam notes and tips. Oracle Certified Professional Java SE 8 Programmer II Guide (Exam IZ0-809) is a comprehensive guide for the OCPJP 8 exam. The book starts by answering frequently asked questions about the OCPJP 8 exam (Chapter 1). The book maps each exam topic into a chapter and covers 100% of the exam topics (next 12 Chapters). Exam topics are discussed using numerous programming and real-world examples. Each chapter ends with practice exam questions and a quick summary that revises key concepts covered in the chapter from exam perspective. After reading the main chapters, you can take the full-length mock exam to ensure that you have enough practice before actually taking the exam (Chapter 14). If you are an OCPJP 8 exam aspirant, this book is certainly for you. This book assumes that you are already familiar with Java fundamentals (that is in line with the prerequisite of having a OCAJP 8 certification before you take up the OCPJP 8 exam). This book will be a delectable read to you because of its simple language, example driven approach, easy-to-read style, and complete focus towards the exam. Salient Features • In-depth and 100% coverage of all 12 exam topics for the certification • Numerous illustrative programming and real-world examples • Hundreds of practice exam questions (including a full-length mock exam) What you will learn: • Have the necessary knowledge to clear the exam since 100% of the exam topics are covered to the required depth • clearly understand the scope and objectives of the exam, the technical topics covered in the exam, and type and level-of-difficulty of the exam questions (in short, you will clearly know what’s exactly required for passing the exam) • get into an “exam mindset” by trying out hundreds of practice exam questions. .
