The Role of Topology in Materials
This book presents the most important advances in the class of topological materials and discusses the topological characterization, modeling and metrology of materials. Further, it addresses currently emerging characterization techniques such as optical and acoustic, vibrational spectroscopy (Brillouin, infrared, Raman), electronic, magnetic, fluorescence correlation imaging, laser lithography, small angle X-ray and neutron scattering and other techniques, including site-selective nanoprobes. The book analyzes the topological aspects to identify and quantify these effects in terms of topology metrics. The topological materials are ubiquitous and range from (i) de novo nanoscale allotropes of carbons in various forms such as nanotubes, nanorings, nanohorns, nanowalls, peapods, graphene, etc. to (ii) metallo-organic frameworks, (iii) helical gold nanotubes, (iv) Möbius conjugated polymers, (v) block co-polymers, (vi) supramolecular assemblies, to (vii) a variety of biological and soft-matter systems, e.g. foams and cellular materials, vesicles of different shapes and genera, biomimetic membranes, and filaments, (viii) topological insulators and topological superconductors, (ix) a variety of Dirac materials including Dirac and Weyl semimetals, as well as (x) knots and network structures. Topological databases and algorithms to model such materials have been also established in this book. In order to understand and properly characterize these important emergent materials, it is necessary to go far beyond the traditional paradigm of microscopic structure–property–function relationships to a paradigm that explicitly incorporates topological aspects from the outset to characterize and/or predict the physical properties and currently untapped functionalities of these advanced materials. Simulation and modeling tools including quantum chemistry, molecular dynamics, 3D visualization and tomography are also indispensable. These concepts have found applications in condensed matter physics, materials science and engineering, physical chemistry and biophysics, and the various topics covered in the book have potential applications in connection with novel synthesis techniques, sensing and catalysis. As such, the book offers a unique resource for graduate students and researchers alike.
Soft Matter, Twisted Matrials -- Dirac Materials, Weyl Semimetals -- Heisenberg Magnets and Magnetism on Curved Surfaces -- Geometry and Topology of Knots: Electron Vortices and Wave Dislocations -- Biomembranes -- Topology of Nanocarbons and Functional Materials -- Wire Networks, Gyroids and Triply Periodic Materials -- Triply Periodic and Gyroid Structures -- Designed Frustration in Artificial Spin Ice -- Complex Carbon Nanomaterials and Their Topology -- Cellular Structures and Properties -- Topological Soft Matter -- Topological Photonic Materials -- Topology of Microstructure Optimization -- DNA Knotting and Lasso Topologies in Biomaterials -- Skyrmions in Confined Geometries.
