Flavor development for functional foods and nutraceuticals
"This is an ideal reference book for the flavor chemists, food scientists, nutraceutical formulators, and students and academicians who are working in the area of nutraceutical, supplement, and functional food development and provides very useful information to help them select appropriate flavors for their products"--
History of flavors associated with functional foods and nutraceuticals / B.Siva Lokesh, Dheeraj Kumar, Mayank Handa, Rahul Shukla -- Basics of flavors and significance of flavor industry in relation to nutraceuticals and functional foods / Raghuraj Singh, Kiran Yadav, Deepak Yadav -- Flavor manufacturing and selection criteria for functional food and nutraceuticals industries / Jayvadan Patel, Anita Patel -- Flavor challenges in legume based functional food products / M. Selvamuthukumaran, Yashwant V. Pathak -- Flavor challenges in cereal based functional food products / M. Selvamuthukumaran, Yashwant V. Pathak -- Encapsulation of flavouring compounds in functional foods and dairy nutraceuticals / Kanchan Kashyap, Kiran Yadav, Deepak Yadav -- Natural flavours in various nutraceutical products applications / Komal Parmar, Jayvadan Patel -- Natural flavors in functional food supplements / Rahul Shukla, J. Lalrengpuii, W. Abhay, K. Vignesh, A. Prabakaran -- Flavors and fragrances - natural and food grade ingredients for nutraceuticals applications / Rahul Shukla, Nikhil Chauhan, Chetan Rajak, S.J.S. Flora -- Recent trends used in functional food and Nutraceuticals industries for modulation of flavors for improving sensory perception / Komal Parmar, Jayvadan Patel -- The bad taste of nutraceuticals : overview of basic research on bitter taste / Bhoomika Patel, Ankita Mehta, Jayvadan Patel, Mayur M. Patel -- Taste assessment trials for sensory analysis of oral nutraceutical products and functional foods / Madan Mohan Gupta -- Quality control in flavor industry / Komal Parmar, Jayvadan Patel -- Legislation for natural and synthetic flavors used in functional foods and nutraceuticals / Priyanka Bhatt, Priya Narvekar, Gulimirerouzi Fnu, Dewi Melani Hariyadi, Umi Athiyah, Yashwant Pathak -- Flavors in confectionery based products and nutraceutical / M. Selvamuthukumaran, Yashwant V. Pathak.
