The Elgar companion to innovation and knowledge creation
This Companion provides a comprehensive, state-of-the-art overview and critical evaluation of existing conceptualizations and new developments in innovation research. Arguing that innovation research requires inter- and trans-disciplinary explanations and methodological pluralism at various levels, it draws on multiple perspectives of innovation, knowledge and creativity from economics, geography, history, management, political science and sociology. The Companion provides the definitive guide to the field and introduces new approaches, perspectives and developments. The Companion systematically analyzes the challenges, problems and gaps in innovation research. Leading scholars reflect upon and critically assess the fundamental topics of the field, including: - innovation as a concept - innovation and institutions - innovation and creativity - innovation, networking and communities - innovation in permanent spatial settings - innovation in temporary and virtual settings - innovation, entrepreneurship and market making - innovation governance and management. Innovation researchers and students in economics, economic geography, industrial sociology, innovation studies, international business, management and political science will find the Companion to be an essential resource. It will also appeal to practitioners in innovation and policy makers in economic development, public policy and innovation policy
Contents: Preface -- 1. Innovation and knowledge creation: challenges to the field / Harald Bathelt, Patrick Cohendet, Sebastian Henn and Laurent Simon -- Part I. innovation as a concept -- 2. A conceptual history of innovation / Benoit Godin -- 3. Concepts and models of innovation / Patrick Cohendet and Laurent Simon -- 4. Science and innovation / Jean-Alain Héraud -- 5. Reverse innovation / Thierry Burger-Helmchem and Caroline Hussler -- 6. Broadening the concept of open innovation / Wim Vanhaverbeke -- 7. Measurement of innovation / Stephane Lhuillery, Julio Raffo and Intan Hamdan-Livramento -- Part II. innovation and institutions -- 8. Institutional context and innovation / Johannes Glückler and Harald Bathelt -- 9. Innovation in practice / Deborah Dougherty -- 10. Domesticating innovation - Designing revolutions / Yellowlees Douglas and Andrew Hargadon -- 11. Innovation and lock-in / Uwe Cantner and Simone Vannuccini -- 12. Patents and open innovation / Julien Pénin -- Part III. innovation and creativity -- 13. Managing knowledge, creativity, and innovation / Patrick Cohendet, Guy Parmentier and Laurent Simon -- 14. Urban diversity and innovation / Pierre Desrochers, Samuli Leppala and Joanna Szurmak -- 15. Innovation and the cultural economy / Andy C. Pratt -- 16. Innovation and cultural industries / Deborah Leslie and Norma M. Rantisi -- 17. Services and innovation / Johannes Glückler -- 18. Design theories, creativity and innovation / Pascal Le Masson, Armand Hatchuel and Benoit Weil -- 19. The dark side of creativity / David H Cropley -- Part IV. Innovation, networking and communities -- 20. Social networks and innovation / Michel Ferrary and Mark Granovetter -- 21. Community, creativity and innovation / Joanne Roberts -- 22. Industrial clusters in global networks / Elisa Giuliani -- 23. The user innovation phenomenon / Cyrielle Vellera, Eric Vernette and Susumu Ogawa -- 24. Horizontal learning / Pengfei Li -- 25. Innovation versus technological achievement / Dominique Foray -- Part V. Innovation in permanent spatial settings -- 26. Geography of innovation, proximity and beyond / Alain Rallet and Andre Torre -- 27. Urban bias in innovation studies / Richard Shearmur -- 28. National and regional innovation systems / Harald Bathelt and Sebastian Henn -- 29. National innovation systems and globalization / Bengt-Åke Lundvall -- 30. Innovation, regional development and relationality / Arnoud Lagendijk -- Part VI. Innovation in temporary and virtual settings -- 31. Trade fairs and innovation / Harald Bathelt -- 32. Innovation through trade show concertation / Francesca Golfetto and Diego Rinallo -- 33. Knowledge collaboration in virtual communities / Gernot Grabher and Oliver Ibert -- 34. Performativity and the innovation-replication dilemma / Luciana D'Adderio -- 35. Coworking and innovation / Janet Merkel -- Part VII. Innovation, entrepreneurship and market making -- 36. Markets, marketization and innovation / Michel Callon -- 37. Market formation and innovation systems / Ulrich Dewald and Bernard Truffer -- 38. Innovation and entrepreneurship / Ed Malecki and Ben Spigel -- 39. Transnational entrepreneurs and global knowledge transfer / Sebastian Henn and Harald Bathelt -- 40. Institutional entrepreneurship and innovation in Alzheimer's / Nina Geilinger, Stefan Haefliger, Georg von Krogh, and Fotini Pachidou -- Part VIII. Governance and management of innovation -- 41. Relational geographies of knowledge and innovation / James R. Faulconbridge -- 42. Innovation, governance and place / Maryann Feldman and Nicola Lowe -- 43. The dynamics of organizational structures and performances / Giovanni Dosi and Luigi Marengo -- 44. Learning through governance / Neil Bradford and David Wolfe -- 45. Global value chains and innovation / Ari Van Assche -- 46. Innovation, development and global destruction networks / Andrew Herod, Graham Pickren, Al Rainnie and Susan McGrath-Champ -- 47. Innovation and the global eco-industry / Bernard Sinclair-Desgagné -- Index.
