Handbook for cleaning/decontamination of surfaces
The focus of Handbook for Cleaning/Decontamination of Surfaces lies on cleaning and decontamination of surfaces and solid matter, hard as well as soft. Bringing together in a 2-volume reference source: - current knowledge of the physico-chemical fundamentals underlying the cleaning process; - the different needs for cleaning and how these needs are met by various types of cleaning processes and cleaning agents, including novel approaches; - how to test that cleaning has taken place and to what extent; - the effects of cleaning on the environment; - future trends in cleaning and decontamination, for example the idea of changing surfaces, to hinder the absorbance of dirt and thus make cleaning easier. A brief introduction is given to the legal demands concerning the environment and a historical background, in terms of development of detergents, from soaps to the modern sophisticated formulations. Bactericides, their use and the environmental demands on them are covered. Thorough discussions of mechanisms for cleaning are given in several chapters, both general basic concepts and special cases like particle cleaning and cleaning using microemulsion concepts. * General understanding of how cleaning works, function of ingredients and formulations * Overview of environmental issues and demands from the society in the area * Gives basic formulas for cleaning preparations in most areas
Volume 1 Physical Aspects of Cleaning Processes W. von Rybinski -- Laundry cleaning of textiles J. Burckett St. Laurent  ... [et al.] -- Formulation of Carpet Cleaners J. Williams -- Dish and Household Cleaning G. Szewczyk -- A review of key ingredients used in Auto-dishwashing formulations past and present and the physico-chemical processes they facilitate. -- A. Tomlinson, J. Carnali -- Personal Cleansing Kumar Subramanyan, K.P. Ananthapadmanabhan -- Shampoo Formulation K. Klein, I. Palefsky -- Surfactant Action on Skin and Hair: Cleansing and Skin Reactivity Mechanisms L. Rhein/Sheads -- The Cleaning of Teeth A. Joiner -- Dry Cleaning of Textiles K.D. Hasenclever -- Wet Cleaning of Textiles K.D. Hasenclever -- Vehicle Cleaning Mahnaz Company, D.R Karsa -- Back End of Lines (BEOL) cleaning S. Raghavan ... [et al.] -- Cleaning of Trace Metallic Impurities From Solid Substrates Using Liquid Media Dr. S. Verhaverbeke -- Elevated Pressure CO  2  -based Fluids Containing Polar Co-solvents for Cleaning in Microelectronic Device Fabrication G. Levitin, D.W. Hess -- Chemical Disinfection of Hard Surfaces -- Household, Industrial and Institutional Settings -- Chemical Disinfection of Hard Surfaces -- Household, Industrial and Institutional Settings E. Fu ... [et al.] -- Biocides Dr D.R Karsa -- Volume 2 Understanding the Environmental Safety of Surfactants: A Historic Perspective M. Stalmans  ... [et al.] -- Ultimate Biodegradation of Ingredients Used in Cleaning Agents C.G. van Ginkel -- Life Cycle Assessment J. Widheden, E. Ringström -- The ecotoxicity of cleaning product ingredients J. Steber -- The ecotoxicity of cleaning product ingredients J. Steber -- Surface analytical techniques applied to cleaning processes M. Ernstsson, Torbjörn Wärnheim -- Self-Cleaning Surfaces Using the Lotus Effect F. Müller ... [et al.] -- Anti-bacteriological effect of nanoscaled inorganic particles in coating matrices C. Göbbert -- Application of Microemulsions in Cleaning Technologies and Environmental Remediation E.J. Acosta ... [et al.] -- New techniques for optimization of particulate cleaning P.M. Claesson ... [et al.]
