H∞-Optimal Control and Related Minimax Design Problems : A Dynamic Game Approach
A General Introduction to Minimax (H?-Optimal) Designs -- Basic Elements of Static and Dynamic Games -- The Discrete-Time Minimax Design Problem with Perfect-State Measurements -- Continuous-Time Systems with Perfect-State Measurements -- The Continuous-Time Problem with Imperfect-State Measurements -- The Discrete-Time Problem with Imperfect-State Measurements -- Minimax Estimators and Performance Levels -- Robustness to Regular and Singular Perturbations -- Appendix A: Conjugate Points and Existence of Value -- Appendix B: Danskin’s Theorem.
"I believe that the authors have written a first-class book which can be used for a second or third year graduate level course in the subject... Researchers working in the area will certainly use the book as a standard reference... Given how well the book is written and organized, it is sure to become one of the major texts in the subject in the years to come, and it is highly recommended to both researchers working in the field, and those who want to learn about the subject." —SIAM Review (Review of the First Edition) "This book is devoted to one of the fastest developing fields in modern control theory---the so-called 'H-infinity optimal control theory'... In the authors' opinion 'the theory is now at a stage where it can easily be incorporated into a second-level graduate course in a control curriculum'. It seems that this book justifies this claim." —Mathematical Reviews (Review of the First Edition) "This work is a perfect and extensive research reference covering the state-space techniques for solving linear as well as nonlinear H-infinity control problems." —IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control (Review of the Second Edition) "The book, based mostly on recent work of the authors, is written on a good mathematical level. Many results in it are original, interesting, and inspirational...The book can be recommended to specialists and graduate students working in the development of control theory or using modern methods for controller design." —Mathematica Bohemica (Review of the Second Edition) "This book is a second edition of this very well-known text on H-infinity theory...This topic is central to modern control and hence this definitive book is highly recommended to anyone who wishes to catch up with this important theoretical development in applied mathematics and control." —Short Book Reviews (Review of the Second Edition) "The book can be recommended to mathematicians specializing in control theory and dynamic (differential) games. It can be also incorporated into a second-level graduate course in a control curriculum as no background in game theory is required." —Zentralblatt MATH (Review of the Second Edition).
