Pro CSS3 Layout Techniques
Discover the freshest cutting-edge layout tools found within CSS3 and hone the skills you’ll need to create advanced design patterns for websites and apps. The book uses a tutorial-led approach to demonstrate real-world examples of new techniques, while providing an accessible reference guide for subsequent referral. Pro CSS3 Layout Techniques teaches you how to make the most of CSS3’s existing specification, including those parts of the specification already widely implemented, as well as the upcoming modules that are still being developed by the W3C. After reading this book you’ll be able to confidently develop sophisticated, flexible layouts that aren't possible with CSS2.1. CSS1 allowed designers to separate content from presentation for the first time and CSS2 cemented support for advanced typographical control, but neither specification provided more than rudimentary layout control. CSS3’s latest additions allow designers to craft fully responsive, sophisticated layouts without the need for complex scripts or smoke-and-mirror workarounds. CSS3 is still in active development, with browser vendors racing against each other to implement the latest recommendations from the W3C. Pro CSS3 Layout Techniques will help you cut through the waffle and get straight to the heart of what works now, while showing you how to be ready for the future of CSS! What You'll Learn Review major CSS3 layout modules including multi-column, regions, and grid Speed up your workflow with CSS libraries and frameworks Use libraries, frameworks, and polyfills Overcome layout challenges of the web Who This Book Is For Web designers and developers.
1. Overcoming the Layout Challenges of the Web -- 2.Layout Modules in CSS: the Old and the New -- 3.Where We've Been: Position, Float,and Display -- 4. CSS Multi-Column Layout -- 5. Flexible Box Layout -- 6. CSS Grid Layout -- 7. CSS Regions -- 8. Supporting Older Browsers -- 9. Speeding Up Your Workflow: CSS Libraries and Frameworks -- 10. What the Future Holds for CSS Layout.
