Design and development of fiber optic gyroscopes
"Realizing the potential of the fiber optic gyro, like the ring laser gyro, has been a long and expensive process. Many researchers have made important enabling contributions, and many more engineers have worked diligently for many years on solving the problems associated with realizing viable inertial navigation and guidance produce at affordable costs. This book arose from efforts to form a special session to commemorate the fortieth anniversary of the first hardware demonstration of the fiber gyro in 1976 by Vali and Shorthill. The chapters contain contributions from key engineers and scientists who have worked from as early as 1977 to the present on manufacturing high-performance fiber gyros for many applications"--
Potpurri of comments about the fiber-gyro for its 40th anniversary, and how fascinating it was and still is! / Herve Lefevre, iXBlue -- The early history of the closed loop fiber gyro and derivative sensors at McDonnell Douglas, Blue Road Research and Columbia Gorge Research / Eric Udd, Columbia Gorge Research, LLC -- 20 years of KVH Fiber Optic Gyro Technology: The evolution from large, low performance FOGs to compact, precise FOGs and FOG-Based Inertial Systems / Jay Napoli-KVH Industries, Inc. -- Fiber optic gyro development at Honeywell / Glen A. Sanders, Steve Sanders et. al., Honeywell International -- Fiber optic gyros from research to production / George A. Pavlath, Northrup-Grumman Corporation -- Technical advancements at Al Cielo Inertial Solutions / Meir Rosilio et. al, Al Cielo Inertial Solutions, Ltd. -- Current status of fiber optic gyro efforts for space applications in Japan / S. Mitani, T. Mizutani and S. Sakau, JAXA -- Fiber optic gyro developments at Fibernetics / R. Bergh, Fibernetics LLC --  Recent developments in laser-driven and hollow-core fiber optic gyroscopes / M.J.F. Digonnet, and J.N. Chamoun, Stanford University -- Optical fibers for fiber optic gyroscopes (FOG) / Chris Emslie, Fibercore -- Novel techniques to ensure quality fiber optic gyro coil production / X.S. Yao and Z. Li, General Photonics Corporation -- A personal history of the fiber optic gyro / Eric Udd, Columbia Gorge Research, LLC.
