Geographic Location in the Internet
Location Based Services -- Geolocation on Cellular Networks -- Location Service in CDMA2000 Networks -- Application of Location Information to SIP -- Protocols for Updating Highly Accurate Location Information -- Geographic Search Engines -- The Elements of Location Tracking and Privacy Protection -- Location Information Privacy.
Geographic Location in the Internet discusses how to find the location of mobile devices in the wireless Internet, specifically those that involve the determination of the geographic location of mobile devices. 2G systems of GSM, GPRS and 3G systems of UMTS and cdma2000, and other link technologies and an extensive description on how numerical location of the mobile can be tracked real-time also are discussed. Geographic Location in the Internet covers Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) related geographic location tracking as it relates to multimedia applications. The recent application-layer protocols for communicating the location information from the mobile device to the applications such as multimedia applications are also covered. Mobile Location Protocol (MLP) of the Location Information Forum (LIF) allows access of the geographic location information to the applications using Web protocol of HTTP. The Wireless Application Protocol (WAP) forum also defined a technical specification for location-based services, which is discussed in detail. A detailed analysis of the location update mechanisms covers various technical issues in location database design, and protocols are compared using simulations and providing provocative conclusions. Geographic search engines utilizing location data that enable users to make location related queries on the Web are also covered. The book has exclusive coverage of the technical aspects of privacy such as linkability, credentials, pseudonyms, anonymity and identity management. Different scenarios are defined for the targets, owners, location servers and location data sources and the privacy implications are emphasized.
