Advances in Mathematical Methods for Electromagnetics
This book covers recent achievements in the area of advanced analytical and associated numerical methods as applied to various problems arising in all branches of electromagnetics
Introduction / Kazuya Kobayashi and Paul D. Smith -- New insights in integral representation theory for the solution of complex canonical diffraction problems / J.M.L. Bernard -- Scattering of electromagnetic surface waves on imperfectly conducting canonical bodies / Mikhail A. Lyalinov and Ning Yan Zhu -- Dieletric-wedge Fourier series / Svend Berntsen -- Green's theorem, Green's functions and Huygens' principle in discrete electromagnetics / John M. Arnold -- The concept of generalized functions and universal properties of the Green's functions associated with the wave equation in bounded piece-wise homogeneous domains / M. Idemen -- Elliptic cylinder with a strongly elongated cross-section : high frequency techniques and function theoretic methods / Frédéric Molinet and Ivan Andronov -- High-frequency hybrid ray-mode techniques / Hiroshi Shirai -- Scattering and diffraction of scalar and electromagnetic waves using spherical-multipole analysis and uniform complex-source beams / Ludger Klinkenbusch and Hendrik Brüns -- Changes in the far-field pattern induced by rounding the corners of a scatterer : dependence upon curvature / Audrey J. Markowskei and Paul D. Smith -- Radiation from a line source at the vertex of a right-angled dielectric wedge / Anthony D. Rawlins -- Wiener-Hopf analysis of the diffraction by a thin material strip / Takashi Nagasaka and Kazuya Kobayashi -- The Wiener-Hopf Fredholm factorization technique to solve scattering problems in coupled planar and angular regions / Vito G. Daniele and Guido Lombardi -- On the analytical regularization method in scattering and diffraction / Yury A. Tuchkin -- Resonance scattering of E-polarized plane waves by two-dimensional arbitrary open cavities : spectrum of complex eigenvalues / Elena D. Vinogradova -- Numerical solutions of integral equations for electromagnetics / Roberto D. Graglia and Andrew F. Peterson -- Electromagnetic modelling at arbitrarily low frequency via the quasi-Helmholtz projectors / Adrien Merlini, Alexandre Dély, Kristof Cools and Francesco P. Andriulli -- Resistive and thin dielectric disk antennas with axially symmetric excitation analyzed using the method of analytical regularization / Nataliya Y. Bliznyuk and Alexander I. Nosich -- Scattering and guiding problems of electromagnetic waves in inhomogeneous media by improved Fourier series expansion method / Tsuneki Yamasaki -- Methods and fast algorithms for the solution of volume singular integral equatios / Alexander B. Samokhin -- Herglotz functions and applications in electromagnetics / Mitja Nedic, Casimir Ehrenborg, Yevhen Ivanenko, Andrei Ludvig-Osipov, Sven Nordebo, Annemarie Luger, Lars Jonsson, Daniel Sjöberg, and Mats Gustafsson -- Scattering and guidance by layered cylindrically periodic arrays of circular cylinders / Vakhtang Jandieri and Kiyotoshi Yasumoto -- Analytical and numerical solution techniques for forward and inverse scattering problems in waveguides / E.D. Derevyanchuk, Yu.V. Shestapalov and Yu.G. Smirnov -- Beam-based local diffraction tomography / Ram Tuvi, Ehud Heyman and Timor Melamed -- Modal expansions in dispersive material systems with application to quantum optics and topological photonics / Marío G. Silveirinha -- Multiple scattering by a collection of randomly located obstacles distributed in a dielectric slab / Gerhard Kristensson and Niklas Wellander -- Electromagnetics of complex environments applied to geophysical and biological media / Akira Ishimaru, Yasuo Kuga and Max Bright -- Innovative tools for SI units in solving various problems of electrodynamics / Oleg A. Tretyakov, Oleksandr Butrym and Fatih Erden.
