Advances in synthetic biology
Chapter 1. Introduction to Synthetic Biology -- Chapter 2. Current progress in synthetic genetic networks -- Chapter 3. Current Progress and Limitations in the Design, Construction and Characterization of Synthetic Parts -- Chapter 4. Recent progress in DNA parts standardization and characterization -- Chapter 5. Current status and challenges of DNA sequencing -- Chapter 6. Biomimetic approaches in synthetic biology -- Chapter 7. Design principles of synthetic biological oscillators -- Chapter 8. SOFTWARE-AIDED DESIGN OF IDEALISED PROGRAMMABLE NUCLEIC ACID CIRCUITS -- Chapter 9. Digital Circuit Design for Biological and Silicon Computers -- Chapter 10. Engineering of riboregulators for gene regulation as a tool for synthetic biology -- Chapter 11. Recent advances, challenges and opportunities in riboswitches -- Chapter 12. Recent Advances in Gene and Genome Assembly: Challenges and Implications -- Chapter 13. Recent advances, challenges and opportunities in synthetic genomes -- Chapter 14. Expansion of the genetic code -- Chapter 15. Expanding the potential of CRISPR-Cas9 technology for crops improvement -- Chapter 16. Synthetic biology at the hand of cell-free systems -- Chapter 17. Synthetic Biology for the Rapid, Precise and Compliant Detection of Microbes -- Chapter 18. Application and challenges of synthetic biology -- Chapter 19. Development and Application of Microfluidics in Synthetic Biology -- Chapter 20. The Ethics of Synthetic Biology Research and Development: A Principlist Approach. .
This book addresses the design of emerging conceptual tools, technologies and systems including novel synthetic parts, devices, circuits, oscillators, biological gates, and small regulatory RNAs (riboregulators and riboswitches), which serve as versatile control elements for regulating gene expression. Synthetic biology, a rapidly growing field that involves the application of engineering principles in biology, is now being used to develop novel systems for a wide range of applications including diagnostics, cell reprogramming, therapeutics, enzymes, vaccines, biomaterials, biofuels, fine chemicals and many more. The book subsequently summarizes recent developments in technologies for assembling synthetic genomes, minimal genomes, synthetic biology toolboxes, CRISPR-Cas systems, cell-free protein synthesis systems and microfluidics. Accordingly, it offers a valuable resource not only for beginners in synthetic biology, but also for researchers, students, scientists, clinicians, stakeholders and policymakers interested in the potential held by synthetic biology.
