Controlling immigration : a comparative perspective
The dilemmas of immigration control in liberal democracies / James F. Hollifield, Philip L. Martin, Pia Orrenius, and François Héran -- The United States : whither the nation of immigrants? / Philip L. Martin and Pia Orrenius -- Canada : continuity and change in immigration for nation-building / Jeffrey G. Reitz -- Australia and New Zealand : classical migration states? / Alan Gamlen and Henry Sherrell -- Immigration and the republican tradition in France / James F. Hollifield and François Héran -- UK immigration and nationality policy : radical and radically uninformed change / Randall Hansen -- Germany : managing migration in the 21st century / Philip L. Martin and Dietrich Thränhardt -- The Netherlands : from consensus to contention in a migration state / Willem Maas -- Governing immigration in advanced welfare states : the Scandinavian cases / Grete Brochmann -- Immigration and integration in Switzerland : shifting evolutions in a multicultural republic / Gianni d'Amato -- Italy : immigration policy / Ted Perlmutter -- Spain : the uneasy transition from labor exporter to labor importer and the new challenges ahead / Miryam Hazàn and Rut Bermejo Casado -- Greece and Turkey : from state-building and developmentalism to immigration and crisis management / Fiona Adamson and Gerasimos Tsourapas -- Japan and South Korea / Erin Chung -- The European Union : from politics to politicization / Andrew Geddes and Leila Hadj-Abdou.
"The fourth edition of this classic work provides a systematic, comparative assessment of the efforts of major immigrant-receiving countries and the European Union to manage migration, paying particular attention to the dilemmas of immigration control and immigrant integration. Retaining its comprehensive coverage of nations built by immigrants--the so-called settler societies of the United States, Canada, Australia and New Zealand-- the new edition explores how former imperial powers--France, Britain and the Netherlands--struggle to cope with the legacies of colonialism, how social democracies like Germany and the Scandinavian countries balance the costs and benefits of migration while maintaining strong welfare states, and how more recent countries of immigration in Southern Europe--Italy, Spain, and Greece--cope with new found diversity and the pressures of border control in a highly integrated European Union. The fourth edition offers up-to-date analysis of the comparative politics of immigration and citizenship, the rise of reactive populism and a new nativism, and the challenge of managing migration and mobility in an age of pandemic, exploring how countries cope with a surge in asylum seeking and the struggle to integrate large and culturally diverse foreign populations"--
