Abrasive Waterjet Machining of Engineering Materials
Manufacturing industry is becoming ever more time-conscious with regard to the global economy, and the need for rapid prototyping and small production batches is increasing. These trends have placed a premium on the use of new and advanced technologies for quickly turning raw materials into usable goods; with no time being required for tooling. The need for advanced processing technologies is particularly evident when machining advanced materials, such as ceramics, composites and thermo-sensitive materials that have wide application but are considered to be "difficult-to-machine" using conventional machining technologies such as turning and milling. Abrasive waterjet (AWJ) machining has been found to be one of the advanced technologies that meet these processing requirements; due to its distinct advantages over other machining technologies. The emphasis of this book is placed squarely on the practical application of AWJ machining technology, and covers all necessary details of the fundamental scientific aspects. It provides a detailed analysis of the effects of the main processing parameters upon cutting performance when machining typical engineering materials, as well as detailing novel techniques for enhancing the cutting performance. Following a brief introductory chapter, the fundamentals of the AWJ machining process are reviewed, including material erosion mechanisms and predictive machining-performance models. Jet dynamic characteristics, based upon a simulation study, are then described. These form a fundamental basis for understanding the contents of the remainder of the book. This is followed by chapters, on the cutting of representative engineering materials, with regard to both straight-slit cutting and contouring. A critical analysis of the mechanisms of surface striation formation is then presented, as well as the various factors which result in surface striation during AWJ machining. The book concludes with invaluable tips concerning the various techniques that can effectively enhance the cutting performance of AWJ machining. This book will be useful to both researchers and postgraduates or final- year undergraduates who are specializing in manufacturing processes. It should also be particularly useful to those industrial users of materials processing who are charged with making AWJ machining more efficient. Wang (mechanical, manufacturing, and medical engineering, Queensland U. of Technology, Australia) describes the relatively new machining process and its advantages in machining various advanced materials, such as ceramics, composites, and thermal sensitive materials. He reviews the fundamentals of the technology and analyzes the effects of the major process parameters on cutting performance. He then explores the use of straight-slit cutting and contouring techniques on various materials.
