A course in luminescence measurements and analyses for radiation dosimetry
"Luminescence, the eerie glow of light emitted by many physical and biological substances, is familiar to us all. The bright speck of a firefly, the luminous glow from seawater in the evening, the glow of a watch dial in the dark - all are examples of luminescence phenomena that are familiar to most of us. Familiarity and understanding are not synonymous, however. Indeed, an understanding of the various luminescence phenomena has a very long genesis and over the centuries there have been several "...divers kinds of Degrees of Explication ...". Luminescence has had, and continues to have, practical uses in both every-day and in more esoteric applications. Computer screens, electronic indicators, lighting, lasers and many, many other examples are indications that the field of luminescence is very broad and potentially very useful. One such field of use is in the detection and measurement of radiation - a field generally known as "dosimetry", or the act of measuring the dose of radiation absorbed by an object. The amount of radiation absorbed by an object and the subsequent amount of luminescence emitted from it is the basis of the use of luminescence in dosimetry. The connection between radiation and luminescence was made many years ago and, in fact, those of us active in the field of luminescence dosimetry can take pride in the fact that the study of luminescence can be traced to the beginning of the modern scientific method. Although it would be surprising if ancient Islamic or, perhaps, Chinese scholars had not already noted the phenomenon, in one of its many guises, it can nevertheless be argued that the first modern description of luminescence stems from the work of Robert Boyle in mid-seventeenth-century England, published in the Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society. Boyle - considered to be the 'father' of chemistry, as well as being a physicist, an inventor, a philosopher and a theologian - gives an evocative description of (what we now term) luminescence emitted from a remarkable piece of diamond, loaned to him by a friend, John Clayton (Boyle, 1664). The word "luminescence" was not used by Boyle who referred to it as the "glow" from the stone. In a later publication concerning luminescence from a liquid he uses the wonderfully suggestive term "self-shining" to describe the phenomenon (Boyle, 1680)"
