Learner Autonomy in the English Classroom : Empirical Studies and Ideas for Teachers
The volume consists of twelve classroom studies concerned with the implementation of learner autonomy in English classes. The individual studies range from primary school level to university level. They include studies on multi-media dictionary work, reading logs, peer correction, communication strategies, vocabulary learning strategies, oral proficiency, as well as work with literary texts and authentic news texts. Two studies focus specifically on the teaching of other subjects in English (Content and Language Integrated Learning). The authors describe their own empirical studies, record their classroom observations and make practical suggestions for teachers to take up in their own classrooms. All the studies are firmly grounded in second language acquisition theory and established didactic principles. They are prefaced by an introduction and a background chapter on the theory and practice of learner autonomy in language teaching.
Intro -- Table of Contents -- The contributors -- Introduction (Paul Lennon) -- Part One. Background -- The story of learner autonomy: from self-access to sociallearningPaul Lennon -- 1. The rationale for learner autonomy -- 2. Strategies for learning -- 3. The good language learner -- 4. Learner and teacher roles in the autonomous classroom -- 5. Social learning as conscious learning -- 6. The autonomous classroom -- 7. Very young learners -- 8. Motivation and learner autonomy -- 9. Assessment -- 10. Learner attitudes to self-directed learning -- 11. Teacher training -- 12. Cultural aspects -- References -- Part Two. Primary School -- Some possibilities for implementing and increasing learner autonomy in the English lesson (Piri Leeck) -- 1. Learner autonomy at elementary school level -- 2. Implications for elementary school -- 3. Implications for English -- 4. Some main building blocks -- 5. Examples and what we can learn from them -- References -- Multimedia dictionaries in the primary school (Tanja Freudenau) -- 1. Learning and working techniques -- 2. Use of media -- 3. The importance of vocabulary building -- 4. Dealing with the written word -- 5. Dictionaries and their versatility - practical experiences -- 6. Multimedia dictionaries and individual prompting -- 7. Opportunities for action and practical examples -- 8. Summary and outlook -- References -- Part Three. Lower and Middle Secondary School -- Suggestions for the effective use of reading logs in the ninth grade (Kathrin Kaupmann) -- 1. Background -- 2. Teaching literature -- 3. The empirical study -- 4. Conclusion -- References -- Peer correction in the English Language writing classroom: an empirical study in the ninth grade of a Realschule (Matthias Bärenfänger) -- 1. Introduction -- 2. The history of error correction -- 3. A small-scale empirical study on peer correction.
