Nanocomposite Coatings and Nanocomposite Materials
Volume is indexed by Thomson Reuters BCI (WoS).Nanocomposite materials are formed by mixing two or more dissimilar materials at the nanoscale in order to control and develop new and improved structures and properties. The properties of nanocomposites depend not only upon the individual components used but also upon the morphology and the interfacial characteristics. Nanocomposite coatings and materials are among the most exciting and fastest-growing areas of research; with new materials being continually developed which often exhibit novel properties that are absent in the constituent materials. Nanocomposite materials and coatings therefore offer enormous potential for new applications including: aerospace, automotive, electronics, biomedical implants, non-linear optics, mechanically reinforced lightweight materials, sensors, nano-wires, batteries, bioceramics, energy conversion and many others. This exciting new book comprises 9 chapters; each written in an easily understandable style by international experts and in a format suitable for students (undergraduate or post-graduate), technologists and experts seeking to expand their knowledge in the area of nanocomposite materials and coatings. Although an elementary knowledge of materials is assumed throughout, there is a comprehensive introduction to each chapter which covers the most important references, details of the experimental methods and techniques used, and a description of the latest research work. Four comprehensive chapters cover the design, synthesis and applications of nanocomposite coatings. Past developments in nanocomposites were hindered by a lack of available characterisation techniques for probing materials at the nanoscale. A complete chapter is therefore dedicated to the latest characterisation techniques available for investigating nanocomposite coatings and nanocomposite materials. Organic/inorganic nanocomposite materials have a vast potential for fulfilling many new applications and, by engineering the polymers-host interactions, nanocomposites having a broad range of properties can be produced. The synthesis and the applications of hybrid organic-inorganic nanostructured materials are described in a particularly comprehensive chapter. Novel routes are being developed in order to synthesise three-dimensional nanocomposites. Hence, three chapters are devoted to nanowires, reinforced nanocomposites and hierarchical nanocomposites.The information contained in this book will serve both as an educational aid and as a guide to anyone involved with nanocomposites from the viewpoint of materials science, physics, chemistry, biology or medical engineering. This book offers nine chapters on recent developments in the field of nanocomposite materials and coatings, written in an easily understandable style by international experts, and presented in a format suitable for undergraduate or post-graduate students, technologists, and experts. Although an elementary knowledge of materials is assumed throughout, an introduction to each chapter examines the most important references, details the experimental methods and techniques used, and describes the latest research work. Four chapters cover the design, synthesis, and applications of nanocomposite coatings. A complete chapter is dedicated to the latest characterization techniques, and another chapter describes the synthesis and applications of hybrid organic-inorganic nanostructured materials. Other chapters are devoted to nanowires, reinforced nanocomposites, and hierarchical nanocomposites. The book is for anyone involved with nanocomposites from the viewpoint of materials science, physics, chemistry, biology, or medical engineering. B&w images are included. Öchsner teaches applied mechanics at the Technical University of Malaysia. There is no subject index.
