Technology and the city : towards a philosophy of urban technologies
1. Introduction (Michael Nagenborg, Taylor Stone & Pieter E. Vermaas) -- 2. Technology and the City: From the perspective of philosophy of organicism (Wang Qian & Yu Xue) -- 3. Technology and Aesthetic Means of Displaying the City (Tea Lobo) -- 4. Choreographing Movement in the Computational City (Jaana Parviainena & Seija Ridellb) -- 5. Aesthetic Perpsectives to Urban Technologies: Conceptualizing and evaluating the technology-driving changes in the urban experience (Sanna Lehtinen & Vesa Vihanninjoki) -- 6. Invisible Structures: The limitations of phenomenological approaches to infrastructure (Mark Thomas Young) -- 7. Structure and Background: The philosophical challenges of infrastructures (Marcel Müller) -- 8. Locative Reverb: Artistic practice, digitial technology, and the grammatization of the listener in the city (El Putnam) -- 9. Giving Design to the City: The impact of the design technology of shape grammar systems on citizens and cities (Pieter E. Vermaas & Sara Eloy) -- 10. Are You Afraid of the Dark? Designing values into the next generation of streetlights (Taylor Stone) -- 11. Universally Designed Urban Environments: "A Mindless Abuse of the ideal of Equality" or a Matter of Social Justice? (Kevin Mintz) -- 12. Issues Surrounding Dockless, App-Based, Shared Bicycles in China (Aline Chevalier & Rockwell F. Clancy) -- 13. From Liberalism to Experimentation: Reconstructing the normative dimensions of public space (Udo Pesch) -- 14. A Philosophy of Sidewalks: Reclaiming promiscuous public spaces (Germán Bula) -- 15. Authenticity and the 'Authentic City' (Ryan Mitchell Wittingslow) -- 16. Living Laboratories: Watching and changing the behavior of smart citizens (Bart van der Sloot & Marjolein Lanzing) -- 17. Theorizing Sediment Traps in Urban Digital Infrastructures: Tracing the enactment of suspicion in technologically mediated policing (Vlad Niculescu-Dincă) -- 18. Binding the Smart City Human-Digital System with Communicative Processes (Brandt Dainow) -- 19. Ghost Walks for Wireless Networks (Robert Seddon) -- 20. Smartness in Layered Cities (Stefano Borgo, Dino Borri, Domenico Camarda & Maria Rosaria Stufano Melone) -- 21. Applying Biomimicry to Cities: The forest as model for urban planning and design (Henry Dicks).
The contributions in this volume map out how technologies are used and designed to plan, maintain, govern, demolish, and destroy the city. The chapters demonstrate how urban technologies shape, and are shaped, by fundamental concepts and principles such as citizenship, publicness, democracy, and nature. The many authors herein explore how to think of technologically mediated urban space as part of the human condition. The volume will thus contribute to the much-needed discussion on technology-enabled urban futures from the perspective of the philosophy of technology. This perspective also contributes to the discussion and process of making cities ‘smart’ and just. This collection appeals to students, researchers, and professionals within the fields of philosophy of technology, urban planning, and engineering.
