Innovative methodologies in enterprise research
1. Introduction -- 2. Teaching and research in small business enterprise marketing : a critique and some alternatives -- 3. 'If a picture paint a thousand words' : reaching beyond the traditional for alternative insights -- 4. Qualitative methodologies for enterprise research. -- 5. Quantitative methodological considerations -- 6. Integrating qualitative and quantitative techniques in entrepreneurship research. : an illustration of network analysis -- 7. Convergent interviewing : a starting methodology for enterprise research programs -- 8. Case and icase : facilitating case survey methods for creating research and teaching synergies in innovation and enterprise -- 9. Action research for enterprise research. -- 10. Case research about enterprises -- 11. Change in a dynamic climate : a single longitudinal case study in a high technology industry -- 12. Issues in cross-national comparisons applied to building theory on informal innovation in SMEs -- 13. Marketing research for isolated SMEs -- 14. Understanding small business enterprise networking : a qualitative case approach. -- 15. The contextual stepwise approach to enterprise research and the use of undisguised stories and focus groups -- 16. A re-visit to the contextual stepwise approach for small firm research -- 17. Exploring fast-track entrepreneurial thinking by a novel text-analytic method : Pertex -- 18. The application of Leximancer, a relational content analytical tool in enterprise research : description and evaluation on the basis of an Australian-German research project -- 19. Innovative methodologies in enterprise research : tackling the question of the role of the state from a macro and micro perspective -- 20. Conclusion : maintaining the innovative momentum.
The contributors to this book explore the role and importance of qualitative, interpretist research in the dynamic field of enterprise. They establish the link between the innovative nature of small enterprise and the need to utilise research methodologies, which are themselves innovative
