Chocolate : a cultural encyclopedia
"Probably no food in history has become as enrobed into world culture as chocolate. Its mythical beginnings tell a tale of ancient empires and great kings. The mysterious Olmecs, the mighty Maya; both civilizations grew to tower over Central America, and then fall into ruin, long before the rest of the world knew they existed. The Aztecs had taken power by the time of Columbus. Early Spanish explorers were dumbfounded to discover an entire culture underpinned by an almond-shaped bean natives called xocolatl. The food was part of Aztec weddings, funerals, harvests and human sacrifice. It was a form of currency. It was a drink of the gods, and a drink of an emperor who, purportedly, relied on it for potency during visits to his mistresses. This was probably not literally true. And yet it was mythically true, in the sense that it became the first of a series of fables and tales, usually fascinating, sometimes lurid, often fanciful, that have for centuries surrounded the lore of chocolate"--
"No food in the world can offer as storied a history as chocolate. Chocolate: A Cultural Encyclopedia focuses on cocoa's history from ancient Mesoamerican beginnings as a symbol of ritual, life, and death, to its omnipresence in Europe, North America, and the rest of the world. In 10 thematic chapters covering chocolate in society and culture, 80 shorter entries, recipes, and a comprehensive timeline, this new book takes a closer look at how chocolate has served as a medicine, an indulgence, a symbol of decadence, a door to romance, a tempting taboo, a means of survival, and a snack for children and adults alike.Why did popes and kings so fear their chocolate? Who invented milk chocolate, and why was its formula kept secret? Why did soldiers in World War II despise their chocolate rations? Who makes the most chocolate today? Find out the answers to these questions and more as this book tells you everything you wanted to know-and a lot you didn't even know existed-about the seed from the world's favorite fruit tree"--
