Handbook of research on food processing and preservation technologies / edited by Megh R. Goyal, Preeti Birwal, Monika Sharma ; Volume 1: Nonthermal and innovative food processing methods
"Handbook of Research on Food Processing and Preservation Technologies will be a 5-volume collection that attempts to illustrate various design, development, and applications of novel and innovative strategies for food processing and preservation. The role and applications of minimal processing techniques (such as ozone treatment, vacuum drying, osmotic dehydration, dense phase carbon dioxide treatment, pulsed electric field, and high-pressure assisted freezing) are also discussed, along with a wide range of applications. The handbook also explores some exciting computer-aided techniques emerging in the food processing sector, such as robotics, radio frequency identification (RFID), three-dimensional food printing, artificial intelligence, etc. Some emphasis has also been given on nondestructive quality evaluation techniques (such as image processing, terahertz spectroscopy imaging technique, near infrared, Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy technique, etc.) for food quality and safety evaluation. The significant roles of food properties in the design of specific foods and edible films have been elucidated as well. The first volume in this set, Nonthermal and Innovative Food Processing Methods, provides a detailed discussion of many nonthermal food process techniques. These include high-pressure processing, ultraviolet light technology, microwave-assisted extraction, high pressure assisted freezing, microencapsulation, dense phase carbon dioxide aided preservation, to name a few. The volume is a treasure house of valuable information and will be an excellent reference for researchers, scientists, students, growers, traders, processors, industries, and others"--
High-Pressure Processing: Potential Applications for Foods / K. Gomathy, R. Pandiselvam, Anjineyulu Kothakota, and S. V. Ramesh -- Ultraviolet Light Technology: Applications for Fresh Produce / Gozde Oguz Korkut and Gurbuz Gunes -- Microwave-Assisted Extraction (MAE) Technology: Potential for Extraction of Food Components / Faizan Ahmad, Sadaf Zaidi, and Z. R. A. A. Azad -- High-Pressure Assisted Freezing of Foods / Pavan Manjunath Gundu, Preeti Birwal, Chaitradeepa G. Mestri, and Gunjal Mahendra Vishram -- Microencapsulation Technology: Potential in Formulations of Probiotic Foods / Meenatai G. Kamble, Ajay Chinchkar, and Anurag Singh -- Dense Phase Carbon Dioxide (DPCD)-Aided Preservation of Foods / Lavanya Devraj, Mohan G. Naik, Nikitha Modupalli, Suka Thangaraju, and Venkatachalapathy Natarajan -- Ionic Liquids: Applications in Food Science and Food Processing / Carolina Elisa Demaman Oro, Victor De Aguiar Pedott, Marcelo Luis Mignoni, Rogério Marcos Dallago, Marcus Vinícius Tres, and Giovani Leone Zabot -- Application of Ozone in the Food Industry: Recent Advances and Prospects / Ravi Pandiselvam, Nukasani Sagarika, Yarrakula Srinivas, Anjineyulu Kothakota, Kamalakkannan Gomathy, and Kaliramesh Siliveru -- Advances in Osmotic Dehydration / Barinderjeet Singh Toor, Harinderjeet Kaur Bhullar, and Amarjeet Kaur.
