Interfaces between nanomaterials and microbes
Introduction to the Microbial World / Munishwar Nath Gupta, Sunil Kumar Khare, and Rajeshwari Sinha -- An Overview of Interactions between Microorganisms and Nanomaterials / Munishwar Nath Gupta, Sunil Kumar Khare, and Rajeshwari Sinha -- Interactions of Metal-Containing Nanomaterials with Microorganisms / Wei Liu, Isabelle A. Worms, and Vera I. Slaveykova -- Challenges in the Risk Assessment of Nanomaterial Toxicity Towards Microbes / Jaison Jeevanandam, Sharadwata Pan, Akula Harini, and Michael K. Danquah -- Nanocrystalline Cellulose (NCC) Composites with Antimicrobial Properties / John HT Luong, Jeremy D. Glennon, and Bansi Malhotra -- TiO2 Nanoparticles and Composite Materials : Antimicrobial Activity, Antimicrobial Mechanism and Applications / Yage Xing, Xuanlin Li, Qinglian Xu, Xiufang Bi, and Xiaocui Liu -- Appraisal of Organic and Inorganic Nanomaterials in Cellular Microenvironment / Shivangi Tank, Ragini Raghav, Madhyastha Radha, Maruyama Masugi, Patel Shivani, Madhyastha Harishkumar -- Microbial Synthesis of Nanoparticles and Their Applications / Meryam Sardar and Jahirul Ahmed Mazumder -- Microbial Synthesis of Nanomaterials and Their Biotechnological Applications / Indramani Kumar, Moumita Mondal, Kranti Tanguturu, and Natarajan Sakthivel -- Biosynthesis of Metallic Nanoparticles by Extremophiles and Their Applications / Sachin Paudel and Debora F. Rodrigues -- Synthesis and Biological Applications of Greener Nanoparticles / Roland M. Miller, Francis J. Osonga, and Omowunmi A. Sadik -- Liposomal Delivery : A Powerful Tool to Promote the Efficacy of Antimicrobial Agents / Mona I. Shaaban, Mohamed A. Shaker, and Fatma M. Mady.
"Nanomaterials are becoming ubiquitous; similarly microbes are everywhere. The latter occur as communities and biofilms. For example, gut bacteria are increasingly becoming important from health point of view. This book focusses on various ways the diverse nanomaterials interact with microbes and implications of such interactions. Specific environmental niche like aquatic are considered but fate and bioavailability of nanomaterials in environments in general are also discussed.Microbes also produce nanomaterials which in turn have antimicrobial action. The interactions between microbes and nanomaterials in various contexts are discussed.Both toxicity and beneficial effects of these interactions are covered. Fairly comprehensive but with narrow focus, the book may be found useful by anybody who wants to gain insight into these interactions which are fast emerging as something which need to be factored in while designing new technologies based upon nanosciences"--
