Electromagnetic vortices : wave phenomena and engineering applications
Fundamentals of orbital angular momentum beams : concepts, antenna analogies, and applications / Anastasios Papathanasopoulos, Yahya Rahmat-Samii -- OAM radio-physical foundations and applications of electromagnetic orbital angular momentum in radio science and technology / Bo Thidé, Fabrizio Tamburini -- Generation of microwave vortex beams using metasurfaces / Jia Yuan Yin, Tie Jun Cui -- Application of transformation optics and 3D printing technology in vortex wave generation / Jianjia Yi, Shah Nawaz Burokur, Douglas H. Werner -- Millimeter-wave transmit-arrays for high-capacity and wideband generation of scalar and vector vortex beams / Zhi Hao Jiang, Lei Kang, Wei Hong, Douglas H. Werner -- Twisted light with metamaterials / Natalia Litchinitser -- Generation of optical vortex beams / Yuanjie Yang, Cheng-Wei Qiu -- Orbital angular momentum generation, detection and angular momentum conservation with second harmonic generation / Menglin L.N. Chen, Xiaoyan Y.Z. Xiong, Wei E.I. Sha, Li Jun Jiang -- Orbital angular momentum based structured radio beams and its applications / Xianmin Zhang, Shilie Zheng, Wei E.I. Sha, Li Jun Jiang, Xiaowen Xiong, Zelin Zhu, Zhixia Wang, Yuqi Chen, Jiayu Zheng, Xinyue Wang, Menglin L.N. Chen -- OAM multiplexing using uniform circular array and microwave circuit for short-range communication / Kentaro Murata, Naoki Honma -- OAM communications in multipath environments / Xiaoming Chen, Wei Xue -- High-capacity free-space communications using multiplexing of multiple OAM beams / Alan Willner, Runzhou Zhang, Kai Pang, Haoqian Song, Cong Liu, Hao Song, Xinzhou Su, Huibin Zhou, Nanzhou Hu, Zhe Zhao, Guodong Xie, Yongxiong Ren, Hao Huang, Moshe Tur -- Theory of vector beams for chirality and magnetism detection of subwavelength particles / Filippo Capolino, Mina Hanifeh -- Quantum applications of structured photons / Alessio D'Errico, Ebrahim Karimi.
"This book describes cutting-edge research and development on electromagnetic vortex waves, including their related wave properties and a variety of potential transformative applications. It is divided into three parts. The first part presents the generation/sorting/manipulation and interesting wave behavior of vortex waves in the infrared and optical regimes with custom-designed nanostructures. The second cluster deals with the generation/multiplexing/propagation of vortex waves at microwave and millimeter-wave frequencies. The last group of chapters exhibit several representative practical applications of vortex waves from a system perspective ranging from microwave frequencies to optical wavelengths. Each chapter is contributed by an internationally recognized author or group of authors covering the latest research results"--
