Planetary remote sensing and mapping
A technical framework for construction of new-generation lunar global control network using multi-mission data / K. Di , B. Liu, M. Peng, X. Xin, M. Jia, W. Zuo, J. Ping, B. Wu and J. Oberst -- Basic geodetic and dynamical parameters of Saturn's moon Enceladus : a key target of future exploration / A . Stark, H. Hussmann, J. Oberst, B . Giese, F. Sohl, D. Shoji, K. Wickhusen and M. Wählisch -- On the applicability of physically defi ned height systems for telluric planets and moons / R. Tenzer and I. Foroughi -- Comet 67P/Churyumov-Gerasimenko through the eyes of the Rosetta/OSIRIS cameras / C. Güttler and the OSIRIS Team -- The BepiColombo Laser Altimeter (BELA) : an instrument for geodetic investigations of Mercury / H . Hussmann, J. Oberst, A . Stark, G. Steinbrügge -- Mars orbit optical remote sensor : high- and medium-resolution integrated stereo camera / Qingyu Meng, Dong Wang and Jihong Dong -- Mission profile and design challenges of Mars landing exploration / Jie Dong, Zezhou Sun, Wei Rao, Yang Jia, Chuang Wang, Baichao Chen and Yonghui Chu -- Correcting spacecraft jitter in HiRISE images / S.S . Sutton, A.K . Boyd, R.L. Kirk, D. Cook, JW . Backer, A. Fennema, R. Heyd, A.S . McEwen and S.D . Mirchandani -- Community tools for cartographic and photogrammetric processing of Mars Express HRSC images / R.L. Kirk, E. Howington-Kraus, K. Edmundson, B. Redding, D. Galuszka, T. Hare and K. Gwinner -- Photogrammetric processing of LROC NAC images for precision lunar topographic mapping / Bo Wu, Han Hu and Wai Chung Liu -- Mercury stereo topographic mapping using data from the MESSENGER orbital mission / F. Preusker, J. Oberst, A . Stark and S . Burmeister -- Automatic crater detection for mapping of planetary surface age / Atheer L . Salih, A . Lompart, P . Schulte, M . Mühlbauer, A . Grumpe, C. Wöhler and H . Hiesinger -- Small craters on the Moon : focus on Tycho's crater rays / R . Bugiolacchi -- Elemental and topographic mapping of lava flow structures in Mare Serenitatis on the Moon / A. Grumpe, C . Wöhler, D . Rommel, M . Bhatt and U . Mall -- Mineral abundance and particle size distribution derived from in situ spectra measurements of the Chang-E-3 Yutu rover / Honglei Lin, Xia Zhang, Xing Wu, Yazhou Yang and Dijun Guo -- Fusion of multi-scale DEMs from Chang-E-3 descent and Navcam images using compressed sensing method / M . Peng, W . Wen, Z . Liu and K . Di -- Co-registration of lunar imagery and digital elevation model constrained by both geometric and photometric information / B . Liu, X . Xin, K . Di, M . Jia and J . Oberst -- Co-registration of multiple-source DEMs for correlated slope analysis at different scales on Mars / Yiran Wang and Bo Wu -- Status and future developments in planetary cartography and mapping / A . Nass, K . Di, S . Elgner, S . van Gasselt, T . Hare, H . Hargitai, I . Karachevtseva, E . Kersten, N . Manaud, T . Roatsch, A.P. Rossi, J . Skinner , Jr. and M . Wählisch -- The lunar sub-polar areas : morphometric analysis and mapping / A.A . Kokhanov, I.P . Karachevtseva, N.A . Kozlova and Zh.F . Rodionova -- Geoportal of planetary data : concept, methods and implementations / I.P . Karachevtseva, A.S . Garov, A.E . Zubarev, E.V . Matveev, A.A . Kokhanov and A. Yu . Zharkova.
