A Study of Ion Cluster Theory of Molten Silicates and some Inorganic Substances
Volume is indexed by Thomson Reuters BCI (WoS).The first part of this monograph consists of a discussion of the microstructures of molten silicates and other inorganic substances. It is made up of seven chapters. Chapter 1 considers developments in ion-cluster theory. Chapter 2 introduces experimental approaches to the direct monitoring of a molten sample, such as hightemperature Raman spectroscopes which have successfully recorded Raman spectra from melts at temperatures of 2000K or more. Chapter 3 shows that five types of Si-O tetrahedron are appropriate microstructural units for setting up structural models. Chapter 4 confirms the SiOT model as being the primary ion-cluster theory for the efficient and reliable description of high-temperature Raman spectra. In Chapter 5, the CEMS model is created in order to interconnect microstructures and thermodynamic properties - with no adjustable parameters. Chapter 6 discusses the applicability of ab initio calculations. The Raman spectra of other inorganic compounds are shown in Chapter 7, and the use of Raman spectra to study phase transformations and solid/melt interfaces is also discussed. The second part (Chapter 8) of the monograph is a discussion of the SReM model as a comprehensive high-order sub-regular model of a melt.This detailed monograph will certainly prove to be beneficial to any research work in the fields of metallurgy, ceramics and crystallography. GuoChang (Shanghai University) presents recent research from Shanghai University on the microstructure of molten silicates and some inorganic substances, and the relationship between microstructure and macro properties. Contributors use advanced physical and chemical experimental technology and some theoretical computational approaches. The first part of the book begins with an overview of the significance of studying the molten state in metallurgy/ceramics/geometry and then reviews the development of high temperature Raman spectroscopy at Shanghai University. Some chapter topics include microstructure of diverse hierarchy in silicates and aluminates, SiOT models used to calculate the Raman spectroscopy of molten silicates, and Raman spectra of some inorganic glasses and compounds. The second part of the book consists of one long chapter on ion cluster theory in thermodynamics, with discussion of the SReM model and suggested criteria for checking self-consistency of sub-system parameters.
