Trade-Offs in Analog Circuit Design : The Designer's Companion
As the frequency of communication systems increases and the dimensions of transistors are reduced, more and more stringent performance requirements are placed on analog circuits. This is a trend that is bound to continue for the foreseeable future and while it does, understanding performance trade-offs will constitute a vital part of the analog design process. It is the insight and intuition obtained from a fundamental understanding of performance conflicts and trade-offs, that ultimately provides the designer with the basic tools necessary for effective and creative analog design. Trade-offs in Analog Circuit Design, which is devoted to the understanding of trade-offs in analog design, is quite unique in that it draws together fundamental material from, and identifies interrelationships within, a number of key analog circuits. The book covers ten subject areas: Design methodology, Technology, General Performance, Filters, Switched Circuits, Oscillators, Data Converters, Transceivers, Neural Processing, and Analog CAD. Within these subject areas it deals with a wide diversity of trade-offs ranging from frequency-dynamic range and power, gain-bandwidth, speed-dynamic range and phase noise, to tradeoffs in design for manufacture and IC layout. The book has by far transcended its original scope and has become both a designer's companion as well as a graduate textbook. An important feature of this book is that it promotes an intuitive approach to understanding analog circuits by explaining fundamental relationships and, in many cases, providing practical illustrative examples to demonstrate the inherent basic interrelationships and trade-offs. Trade-offs in Analog Circuit Design draws together 34 contributions from some of the world's most eminent analog circuits-and-systems designers to provide, for the first time, a comprehensive text devoted to a very important and timely approach to analog circuit design.
Intuitive Analog Circuit Design -- Design for Manufacture -- Trade-Offs in CMOS VLSI Circuits -- Floating-Gate Circuits and Systems -- Bandgap Reference Design -- Generalized Feedback Circuit Analysis -- Analog Amplifiers Architectures: Gain Bandwidth Trade-Offs -- Noise, Gain and Bandwidth in Analog Design -- Frequency Compensation -- Frequency-Dynamic Range-Power -- Trade-Offs in Sensitivity, Component Spread and Component Tolerance in Active Filter Design -- Continuous-Time Filters -- Insights in Log-Domain Filtering -- Trade-Offs in the Design of CMOS Comparators -- Switched-Capacitor Circuits -- Compatibility of SC Technique with Digital VLSI Technology -- Switched-Capacitors or Switched-Currents – Which Will Succeed? -- Design of Integrated LC VCOs -- Trade-Offs in Oscillator Phase Noise -- Systematic Design of High-Performance Data Converters -- Analog Power Modeling for Data Converters and Filters -- Speed VS. Dynamic Range Trade-Off in Oversampling Data Converters -- Power-Conscious Design of Wireless Circuits and Systems -- Photoreceiver Design -- Analog Front-End Design Considerations for DSL -- Low Noise Design -- Trade-Offs in CMOS Mixer Design -- A High-Performance Dynamic-Logic Phase-Frequency Detector -- Trade-Offs in Power Amplifiers -- Trade-Offs in Standard and Universal CNN Cells -- Top-Down Design Methodology for Analog Circuits Using Matlab and Simulink -- Techniques and Applications of Symbolic Analysis for Analog Integrated Circuits -- Topics in IC Layout for Manufacture.
