Persuasive Gaming in Context
Frontmatter -- Table of Contents -- 1. Persuasive Gaming: From Theory-Based Design to Validation and Back . An Introduction -- Part I. The Study of Persuasion Through Digital Games -- Introduction to Part I -- 2. Persuasive Games, A Decade Later -- 3. Playing an Automated World -- 4. Looking Beyond Persuasion Through Rule-Based Representations in Digital Games: Designing Games to Shape, Reinforce, or Change Attitudes -- 5. Creating Stealth Game Interventions for Attitude and Behavior Change : An 'Embedded Design' Model -- Part II. Designing Persuasive Games -- Introduction to Part II -- 6. A Breathtaking Journey . Appealing to Empathy in a Persuasive Mixed- Reality Game -- 7. Macro, Micro, and Meta-Persuasive Play to Change Society -- 8. VilDu?! A Game for Sexually Abused Children : How Openness Facilitated a Clear Design Direction -- 9. Designing for Persuasion through Embodied Experiences in Virtual Reality -- Part III. Assessing the Effectiveness of Persuasive Games -- Introduction to Part III -- 10. The Present of Persuasion : Escalating Research into Persuasive Game Effects -- 11. Designing for Transfer -- 12. Striving 'Against All Odds' to Reduce Prejudice toward Immigrants and Refugees -- 13. Mitigating Bias and Improving Professional Decision-Making through Persuasive Training Games -- Index
The rapid developments of new communication technologies have facilitated the popularization of digital games, which has translated into an exponential growth of the game industry in the last decades. The ubiquitous presence of digital games has resulted in an expansion of the applications of these games from mere entertainment purposes to a great variety of serious purposes. In this edited volume, we narrow the scope of attention by focusing on what game theorist Ian Bogost has called "persuasive games", that is, gaming practices that combine the dissemination of information with attempts to engage players in particular attitudes and behaviors. This volume offers a multifaceted reflection on persuasive gaming, that is, on the process of these particular games being played by players. The purpose is to better understand when and how digital games can be used for persuasion, by further exploring persuasive games and some other kinds of persuasive playful interaction as well. The book critically integrates what has been accomplished in separate research traditions to offer a multidisciplinary approach to understanding persuasive gaming that is closely linked to developments in the industry by including the exploration of relevant case studies.
