Hands-on matplotlib : learn plotting and visualizations with Python 3
Learn the core aspects of NumPy, Matplotlib, and Pandas, and use them to write programs with Python 3. This book focuses heavily on various data visualization techniques and will help you acquire expert-level knowledge of working with Matplotlib, a MATLAB-style plotting library for Python programming language that provides an object-oriented API for embedding plots into applications. You'll begin with an introduction to Python 3 and the scientific Python ecosystem. Next, you'll explore NumPy and ndarray data structures, creation routines, and data visualization. You'll examine useful concepts related to style sheets, legends, and layouts, followed by line, bar, and scatter plots. Chapters then cover recipes of histograms, contours, streamplots, and heatmaps, and how to visualize images and audio with pie and polar charts. Moving forward, you'll learn how to visualize with pcolor, pcolormesh, and colorbar, and how to visualize in 3D in Matplotlib, create simple animations, and embed Matplotlib with different frameworks. The concluding chapters cover how to visualize data with Pandas and Matplotlib, Seaborn, and how to work with the real-life data and visualize it. After reading Hands-on Matplotlib you'll be proficient with Matplotlib and able to comfortably work with ndarrays in NumPy and data frames in Pandas. You will: Understand Data Visualization and Python using Matplotlib Review the fundamental data structures in NumPy and Pandas Work with 3D plotting, visualizations, and animations Visualize images and audio data.
Chapter 1: Getting Started with Python and Jupyter Notebook -- Chapter 2: Getting Started with NumPy -- Chapter 3 :NumPy Routines and Getting started with Matplotlib -- Chapter 4 : Revisiting Matplotlib Visualizations -- Chapter 5 : Styles and Layouts -- Chapter 6 : Line, Bar, and Scatter Plots -- Chapter 7 : Line, Bar, and Scatter Plots -- Chapter 8 :Image and Audio Visualization -- Chapter 9 : Pie and Polar Charts -- Chapter 10 : PColor, Pcolormesh, and Colorbar -- Chapter 11 : 3D Visualizations in Matplotlib -- Chapter 12 : Animations with Matplotlib -- Chapter 13 : More Recipes of Visualizations with Matplotlib -- Chapter 14 : Introduction to Pandas -- Chapter 15 : Data Acquisition -- Chapter 16 : Visualizing Data with Pandas and Matplotlib -- Chapter 17 : Introduction to Data Visualization with Seaborn -- Chapter 18 : Visualizing real-life Data with Matplotlib and Seaborn.
