Research handbook of international and comparative perspectives on diversity management
This Research Handbook offers, for the first time, a comparative approach to current diversity management concerns facing nations. Spanning 19 countries and across Africa, it covers age, gender, ethnicity, disability, sexual orientation, national origin and the intersection of various dimensions of diversity. The multicultural and multi-country teams of contributors, leading scholars in their own countries, examine how the various actors react, adopt and manage the different dimensions of diversity, from a multitude of approaches, from national to sectoral and from tribes to trade unions, but always with a comparative, multi-country perspective. This book represents the efforts of multicultural and multi-country teams of contributors who are prominent diversity scholars in their respective countries. Offering comparative approaches to diversity management and comparative public policy on multiculturalism, it explores comparisons at both the macro-environmental and meso-organizational levels. Topics covered include pan-African tribal diversity management, diversity in the South Pacific, youth labour market exclusion and LGBTQ rights in selected countries. This comprehensive review of diversity management will appeal to both academics and graduate students as well as to public policy-makers, industry practitioners, top leadership, middle managers and HR managers
Introduction: international and comparative perspectives on diversity management: an overview -- 1. Social dialogue - an 'essential dimension' of diversity management in continental Europe? / Emma Stringfellow -- 2. Diversity management in Denmark and in France: a comparative approach / Sabine Bacouel-Jentjens and Liza Castro Christiansen -- 3. An intersectional approach to diversity management in the United States and France / Tarani Merriweather Woodson and Ariane Ollier-Malaterre -- 4. Brazil, South African and USA work environments: a comparative analysis of equal opportunity, diversity management and inclusion practices / Lize Booysen, Gwendolyn Combs and Waheeda Lillevik -- 5. A comparative review of multiculturalism in Australia, Canada, United Kingdom, United States, and South Africa / Isabel Metz, Eddy Ng, Nelarine Cornelius, Jenny M. Hoobler and Stella Nkomo -- 6. A comparison of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer rights and politics in South Africa and the USA / Lize Booysen and Heather Wishik -- 7. What does being LGBT mean in the workplace? a comparison of LGBT equality in Turkey and the UK / Emir Ozeren and Erhan Aydin -- 8. Managing diversity in the South Pacific / Katherine Ravenswood, Stéphane Le Queux, Erica French, Glenda Strachan and John Burgess -- 9. A comparative analysis of youth labor market exclusion / Paula Apascaritei, Lourdes Susaeta, Esperanza Suarez Ruz, Isis Gutiérrez-Martínez, Sandra Idrovo Carlier and José Ramón Pin Arboledas -- 10. A comparative study of five countries with critical mass and its ambiguous impact on HRM policies / Terry A. Nelson, Kori Callison and Allison Thomas -- 11. Tribal diversity and collective productivity: the intervening mechanisms of social inclusion, human resource development and tribal identity / David B. Zoogah.
