Multimedia technologies in the Internet of Things environment
Chapter 1. Smart Control and Monitoring of Irrigation System using Internet of Things -- Chapter 2. Blockchain-based Cyber Threat Mitigation Systems for Smart Vehicles and Industrial Automation -- Chapter 3. IT Convergence related Security Challenges for Internet of Things and Big Data -- Chapter 4. Applicability of Industrial IoT in Diversified Sectors: Evolution, Applications and Challenges -- Chapter 5. Recent emergine for inteliigent learning and analytics in Big data -- Chapter 6. Real Time Health System (RTHS) centered Internet of Things (IoT) in healthcare industry: benefits, use cases and advancements in 2020 -- Chapter 7. Building intelligent Integrated Development Environment for IoT in the context of Statistical modeling for Software Source code -- Chapter 8. Visualization of COVID-19 Pandemic: an Analysis through Machine Intelligent Technique towards Big Data Paradigm -- Chapter 9.Multimedia Security and Privacy on Real Time Behavioral Monitoring in Machine Learning IoT Application using Big Data Analytics Chapter 10. A robust approach with text analytics for bengalir digit recgnition using mechine learning -- Chapter 11. Internet of Things Based Security Model and Solutions for Educational Systems.
This book provides theoretical and practical approach in the area of multimedia and IOT applications and performance analysis. Further, multimedia communication, deep learning models to multimedia data and the new (IOT) approaches are also covered. It addresses the complete functional framework in the area of multimedia data, IOT and smart computing techniques. The book proposes a comprehensive overview of the state-of-the-art research work on multimedia analysis in IOT applications. It bridges the gap between multimedia concepts and solutions by providing the current IOT frameworks, their applications in multimedia analysis, the strengths and limitations of the existing methods, and the future directions in multimedia IOT analytics.
