Plastics packaging : properties, processing, applications, and regulations
Plastic materials continue to play a vital and growing role in packaging applications. It is thus more important than ever that all involved in the packaging industry command a basic understanding of the properties of the common packaging plastics. This highly regarded book provides just that to students and packaging professionals alike: material properties and how they relate to the chemical structure of the polymers, common processing methods for packaging applications, help with writing specifications, designing, fabricating, testing, and controlling the quality of the plastic material are covered comprehensively. The fourth edition has major revisions in discussions of sustainability, recycling, and design for sustainability. Coverage of biodegradable and biobased plastics is also increased. Discussion of coatings is also expanded. Further updates and enhancements throughout ensure Plastics Packaging remains an indispensable resource for both the packaging expert and the novice.
Susan E. M. Selke, Ph.D., is Director and Professor at the Michigan State University (MSU) School of Packaging, where she has conducted research for over 35 years. She is author of 12 books focusing on packaging technology, as well as numerous book chapters, peer-reviewed articles, and reviews. John D. Culter, Ph.D., is President of Advanced Materials Engineering, Inc., and has worked in the plastics packaging industry since the early 1970s. He has developed and taught several courses in polymer packaging at Michigan State University and the Missouri University of Science and Technology, as well as in Brazil and Argentina, and online. Rafael Auras, Ph.D., is Associate Professor at the MSU School of Packaging. His research interests include sustainable packaging systems, life cycle assessment, carbon-neutral packaging, packaging waste scenarios, biodegradation and compostability. Muhammad Rabnawaz, Ph.D., is Associate Professor at the MSU School of Packaging. His research interests include polymer synthesis from renewable feedstocks, design and preparation of smart materials, and polymer composites.
