Biomass as raw material for the production of biofuels and chemicals
"This book discusses biomass as a raw material for the production of liquid or gaseous biofuels and valuable chemicals. Such biomass processing should be beneficial from both economic and environmental points of view. Classical technologies of biogas production are still being improved, but they always generate waste that differs in terms of chemical parameters, depending on the feedstock digested. These parameters dictate the manner of their final managing. The authors show how its volume and composition can be predicted, by which form of processing it can be converted into valuable products, as well as in which ways its negative environmental impact can be limited"--
The intensity of heat exchange in complexes of organic waste disposal / S.Y. Tkachenko & K.O. Ischenko, N.V. Rezydent, L.G. Koval, D.I. Denesyak, R.B. Akselrod, K. Gromaszek & S. Mirzabayev -- Predicting volume and composition of municipal solid waste based on ANN and ANFIS methods and correlation-regression analysis / I.N. Dudar, O.V. Yavorovska, S.M. Zlepko, A.P. Vinnichuk, P. Kisała, A. Shortanbayeva & G. Borankulova -- Assessment of ecology-economic efficiency in providing thermal stabilization of biogas installations / G.S. Ratushnyak, E.G. Lyalyuk, O.G. Ratushnyak, Yu.S. Biks, I.V. Shvarts, R.B. Akselrod, P. Komada, Ż. Grądz, K. Muslimov & O. Ussatova -- Increasing the efficiency of primary municipal solid waste processing technology to reduce water permeability of the filtrate / O.V. Bereziuk, M.S. Lemeshev, V.V. Bogachuk, R.B. Akselrod, A.P. Vinnichuk, A. Smolarz, M. Arshidinova & O. Kulakova -- Assessment of pesticide phytotoxicity with the bioindication method / Roman V. Petruk, Natalia M. Kravets, Serhii M. Kvaterniuk, Yuriy M. Furman, Róża Dzierżak, Mukaddas Arshidinova & Assel Jaxylykova -- Efficiency assessment functioning of vibration machines for biomass processing / Nataliia R. Veselovska, Sergey A. Shargorodsky, Larysa E. Nykyforova, Zbigniew Omiotek, Imanbek Baglan & Mergul Kozhamberdiyeva -- The use of cyanobacteria - water pollutants in various multiproduction / M.V. Zagirnyak, V.V. Nykyforov, M.S. Malovanyy, І.S. Тymchuk, C.Y.Soloviy, V.V. Bogachuk, P. Komada, A. Kozbakova & Z. Amirgaliyeva -- Elaboration of biotechnology processing of hydrobionts mass forms / S.V. Digtiar, V.V. Nykyforov, M.O. Yelizarov, M.S. Malovanyy, T.N. Nikitchuk, A. Kotyra, S. Smailova & A. Iskakova -- Hyaluronic acid as a product of the blue-green algae biomass processing / T.F. Kozlovs'ka, M.V. Petchenko, O.V. Novokhatko, O.O. Nykyforova, Z.M. Khomenko, P. Komada, S. Rakhmetullina & A. Ormanbekova -- Prospects for the use of cyanobacterial waste as an organo-mineral fertilizer / M.S. Malovanyy, I.S. Тymchuk, C.M. Soloviy, O.O. Nykyforova, D.V. Cherepakha, W. Wójcik, I. Shedreyeva & G. Karnakova -- Biomass of excess activated sludge from aeration tanks as renewable raw materials in environmental biotechnology / A.V. Pasenko, O.V. Maznytska, T.M.R otai, L.E. Nykyforova, A. Kotyra, B. Yeraliyeva & G. Borankulova -- The use of activated sludge biomass for cleaning of wastewater from dairy enterprises / А.І. Svjatenko, O.V. Novokhatko, A.V. Pasenko, O.V. Maznytska, T.М. Rotai, L.E. Nykyforova, K. Gromaszek, A. Bizhanova & A. Kalabayeva -- Ecological and economic principles of rational use of biomass / O.A. Ushakova, N.B. Savina, N.N. Kovshun, L.E. Nykyforova, N.V. Lyakhovchenko, W. Wójcik, G. Yerkeldessova & A. Oralbekova -- Fallen leaves and other seasonal biomass as raw material for producing biogas and fertilizers / M.O. Yelizarov, A.V. Pasenko, V.V. Zhurav, L.K. Polishchuk, Andrzej Smolarz, Yedilkhan Amirgaliyev & Orken Mamyrbaev -- Toxicity by digestate of methanogenic processing of biomass / V.V. Nykyforov, D.M. Salamatin, S.V. Digtiar, O.A. Sakun, L.K. Polishchuk, R. Dzierżak, M. Kalimoldayev & Y. Amirgaliyev -- The use of microcystis aeruginosa biomass to obtain fungicidal drugs / V.V. Nykyforov, O.A. Sakun, O.V. Novokhatko, V.S. Shendryk, K. Meixner, A.A. Cherepakha, Z. Omiotek, S. Kalimoldayeva & D. Nuradilova -- Experimental research of engine characteristics working on the mixtures of biodiesel fuels obtained from algae / S. Kryshtopa, L. Kryshtopa, M. Panchuk, Victor Bilichenko, A. Smolarz, Aliya Kalizhanova & Sandugash Orazalieva -- Mathematical model of synthesis of biodiesel from technical animal fats / M.M. Mushtruk, I.P. Palamarchuk, V.P. MiskoV, Y.V. Ivanchuk, P. Komada, M. Kalimoldayev & K. Nurseitova -- Application of system analysis for the investigation of environmental friendliness of urban transport systems / V.О. Khrutba, V.І. Zyuzyun, О.V. Spasichenko, N.O. Bilichenko, W. Wójcik, A. Tergeusizova & O. Mamyrbayev.
