Nanomaterials in rocket propulsion systems
The prospects of using nanoenergetic materials in solid rocket propulsion /Vladimir E. Zarko --Review on nanoexplosive materials /Bing Gao, Zhiqiang Qiao and Guangcheng Yang --Intensive energetic materials containing two-dimensional nanostructures as building blocks /Qi-Long Yan, Michael Gozin, Pei-Jin Liu and Guo-Qiang He --Preparation, characterization, and application of superthermites in solid propellant /Ting An, Wen-Gang Qu, Yan-Jing Yang, Feng-qi Zhao and Qi-Long Yan --Aluminum powders for energetics : properties and oxidation behavior /A.A. Gromov, A. Yu Nalivaiko, V.P. Tarasov, S.V. Zmanovsky, A.N. Arnautov, A.V. Sergienko, and K.B. Larionov --Nanoenergetic ingredients to augment solid rocket propulsion /Luigi T. De Luca --Performance of composite solid propellant containing nanosized metal particles /WeiQiang Pang, Luigi T. De. Luca, Ke Wang, XiaoLong Fu, JunQiang Li, HuiZXiang Xu, XueZhong Fan and Huan Li --Effect if ammonium perchlorate particle size on flow, ballistic, and mechanical properties of composite propellant /Jauhari Ashish, Gharde Swaroop and Kandasubramanian Balasubramanian --New developments in composite propellants catalysis : from nanoparticles to metallo-polyurethanes /Carlos Hortelano and José Luis de la Fuente --Chemical propulsion of microthrusters /Ruiqi Shen, Yinghua Ye, Chengling Wang, Chengbo Ru and Ji Dai --Chemical propulsion of microthrusters /Ruiqi Shen, Yinghua Ye, Chengling Want, Chengbo Ru and Ji Dai --Integrated Micropropulsion systems with nanoenergetic propellants /Mkhitar Hobosyan, Sergey E. Lyshevski and Karen S. Martirosyan --Polymer nanocomposite ablative technologies for solid rocket motors /Joseph H. Koo and Jon Langston --Nanotube/nanowire--toughened carbon/carbon composites and their coatings /Qiang Song, Lei Zhuang and Qian-Gang Fu --An introduction to ablative materials and high-temperature testing protocols /Marco Rallini, Maurizio Natali and Luigi Torre.
"Nanomaterials in rocket propulsion systems covers the fundamentals of nanomaterials and examines a wide range of innovative applications, presenting the current state-of-the-art in the field. Opening with a chapter on nano-sized energetic materials, the book examines metal nanoparticles-based fuels, ballistic modifiers, stabilizers and catalysts as the components of rocket propellants. Hydrogen storage materials for rocket propulsion based on nanotubes are then discussed, as are nano-porous materials and metal organic frameworks, nano-gelled propellants, nano-composite ablators and ceramic nano-composites. Other applications examined include high thermal conductivity metallic nano-composite nozzle liners, nano-emitters for Coulomb propulsion of space-crafts, and highly thermostable nano-ceramics for rocket motors. The book finishes with coverage of combustion of nano-sized rocket fuels, nano-particles and their combustion in micro- and nano-electromechanical systems (MEMS/NEMS), plasma propulsion and nano-scale physics. Users will find this to be a valuable resource for academic and government institutions, professionals, new researchers and graduate students working in the application of nanomaterials in the aerospace industry"
