Meat! : A Transnational Analysis
Frontmatter -- Contents -- Acknowledgments -- Introduction. How to Think with Meat -- Contributors -- 1. When Fish Is Meat: Transnational Entanglements -- 2. Eating the Mother -- 3. Reindeer and Woolly Mammoths: The Imperial Transit of Frozen Meat from the North American Arctic -- 4. Beefing Yoga: Meat, Corporeality, and Politics -- 5. Eating after Chernobyl: Slow Violence and Reindeer Consumption in the Postnuclear Age -- 6. Romancing the Pig: A Queer Crip Tale from Barbecue to Xenotransplantion -- 7. On Being Meat: Three Parables on Sacrifice and Violence -- 8. “I Hide in Plain Sight”: Food and Black Masculinity in Vince Gilligan’s Breaking Bad -- 9. On Phooka: Beef, Milk, and the Framing of Animal Cruelty in Late Colonial Bengal -- 10. Fake Meat: A Queer Commentary -- 11. The Ethical Impurative: Elemental Frontiers of Technologized Meat -- 12. Fire and Ash -- About the Contributors -- Index
What is meat? Is it simply food to consume, or a metaphor for our own bodies? Can “bloody” vegan burgers, petri dish beef, live animals, or human milk be categorized as meat? In pursuing these questions, the contributors to Meat! trace the shifting boundaries of the meanings of meat across time, geography, and cultures. In studies of chicken, fish, milk, barbecue, fake meat, animal sacrifice, cannibalism, exotic meat, frozen meat, and other manifestations of meat, they highlight meat's entanglements with race, gender, sexuality, and disability. From the imperial politics embedded in labeling canned white tuna as “the chicken of the sea” to the relationship between beef bans, yoga, and bodily purity in Hindu nationalist politics, the contributors demonstrate how meat is an ideal vantage point from which to better understand transnational circuits of power and ideology as well as the histories of colonialism, ableism, and sexism.Contributors Neel Ahuja, Irina Aristarkhova, Sushmita Chatterjee, Mel Y. Chen, Kim Q. Hall, Jennifer A. Hamilton, Anita Mannur, Elspeth Probyn, Parama Roy, Banu Subramaniam, Angela Willey, Psyche Williams-Forson
