Thermal Conductivity : Theory, Properties, and Applications
Overview of Thermal Conductivity in Solid Materials -- Theory of Thermal Conductivity -- Thermal Conductivity of Metals -- Thermal Conductivity of Insulators and Glasses -- Thermal Conductivity of Semiconductors -- Semiconductors and Thermoelectric Materials -- Thermal Conductivity of Superlattices -- Experimental Studies on Thermal Conductivity of Thin Films and Superlattices -- Measurement Techniques -- Measurement Techniques and Considerations for Determining Thermal Conductivity of Bulk Materials -- Experimental Techniques for Thin-Film Thermal Conductivity Characterization -- Thermal Properties and Applications of Emerging Materials -- Ceramics and Glasses -- Thermal Conductivity of Quasicrystalline Materials -- Thermal Properties of Nanomaterials and Nanocomposites.
It has been almost thirty years since the publication of a book that is entirely dedicated to the theory, description, characterization and measurement of the thermal conductivity of solids. The recent discovery of new materials which possess more complicated crystal structures and thus more complicated phonon scattering mechanisms have brought innovative challenges to the theory and experimental understanding of these new materials. With the development of new and novel solid materials and new measurement techniques, this book will serve as a current and extensive resource to the next generation researchers in the field of thermal conductivity. Professor Terry M. Tritt is considered a prominent researcher in the field of thermoelectric materials, in which he has worked over the last decade. Understanding the theoretical and experimental aspects of thermal conduction in new materials is the key to developing the next generation thermoelectric materials. Professor Tritt has edited seven books, authored several review articles, and over 120 scientific publications in his career. Terry M. Tritt, is Professor of Physics in the Department of Physics and Astronomy, Clemson University, South Carolina.
