A mathematical introduction to general relativity
Intro -- Contents -- Preface -- Notation and terminology -- 1. Smooth Manifolds -- 1.1 Charts and atlases -- 1.2 Topology on a smooth manifold -- 1.3 Smooth maps -- 2. Co-/Tangent space -- 2.1 Tangent vectors to a surface as derivations -- 2.2 Tangent vector definition -- 2.3 Bump functions -- 2.4 Chart-induced basis for the tangent space -- 2.5 Derivatives of smooth maps -- 2.6 Cotangent space -- 2.7 Pull-back of 1-forms -- 3. Co-/Tangent bundles -- 3.1 Tangent bundle -- 3.2 Vector fields -- 3.3 Push forward of vector fields under diffeomorphisms -- 3.4 Lie algebra of vector fields -- 3.5 Cotangent bundle -- 3.6 1-form fields -- 3.7 Pull-back of a 1-form field -- 3.8 Integral curves and the flow of vector fields -- 4. Tensor fields -- 4.1 (r, s)-tensor fields -- 4.2 Point evaluation of tensor fields -- 4.3 Tensor field components, tensor product and contraction -- 4.4 Pull-back of (0, s)-tensor fields -- 5. Lorentzian manifolds -- 5.1 Scalar product -- 5.2 Semi-Riemannian, Riemannian, Lorentzian manifolds -- 5.3 Time-orientation, observers, and proper time -- 5.4 Raising/Lowering indices or musicality -- Appendix: Example 5.15 -- 6. Levi-Civita connection -- 6.1 Motivation for connections: the case of Rm -- 6.2 Definition of a connection -- 6.3 Locality and connection coefficients/Christoffel symbols -- 6.4 The Levi-Civita connection -- 6.5 Covariant derivative of tensor fields -- 6.6 Lie derivative of tensor fields -- 7. Parallel transport -- 7.1 Vector fields along curves -- 7.2 Covariant derivative along a curve -- 7.3 Parallel transport -- 8. Geodesics -- 8.1 Geodesic equation -- 8.2 Existence and uniqueness -- 8.3 Affine parameter -- 8.4 Lightlike geodesics in Schwarzschild spacetime -- 8.5 The exponential map -- 8.6 Normal coordinates -- 8.7 Geodesics as extremal paths -- 9. Curvature -- 9.1 Ricci and scalar curvatures.
"The book aims to give a mathematical presentation of the theory of general relativity (that is, spacetime-geometry-based gravitation theory) to advanced undergraduate mathematics students. Mathematicians will find spacetime physics presented in the definition-theorem-proof format familiar to them. The given precise mathematical definitions of physical notions help avoiding pitfalls, especially in the context of spacetime physics describing phenomena that are counter-intuitive to everyday experiences. In the first part, the differential geometry of smooth manifolds, which is needed to present the spacetime-based gravitation theory, is developed from scratch. Here, many of the illustrating examples are the Lorentzian manifolds which later serve as spacetime models. This has the twofold purpose of making the physics forthcoming in the second part relatable, and the mathematics learnt in the first part less dry. The book uses the modern coordinate-free language of semi-Riemannian geometry. Nevertheless, to familiarise the reader with the useful tool of coordinates for computations, and to bridge the gap with the physics literature, the link to coordinates is made through exercises, and via frequent remarks on how the two languages are related. In the second part, the focus is on physics, covering essential material of the 20th century spacetime-based view of gravity: energy-momentum tensor field of matter, field equation, spacetime examples, Newtonian approximation, geodesics, tests of the theory, black holes, and cosmological models of the universe. Prior knowledge of differential geometry or physics is not assumed. The book is intended for self-study, and the solutions to the (over 200) exercises are included"--
