Research handbook on employee pro-environmental behaviour
Contents: 1. Introduction / Victoria K. Wells, Diana Gregory-Smith and Danae Manika -- 2. Multiple domains and categories of employee green behaviours: more than conservation / Deniz S. Ones, Brenton M. Wiernik, Stephan Dilchert and Rachael M. Klein -- 3. Green human resources management / Cristina E. Ciocirlan -- 4. Individual antecedents of pro-environmental behaviours: implications for employee green behaviours / Brenton M. Wiernik, Deniz S. Ones, Stephan Dilchert and Rachael M. Klein -- 5. Disentangling voluntary pro-environmental behaviour of employees (VPBE) - fostering research through an integrated theoretical model / Regina Hahn and Felix Ostertag -- 6. Environmental considerations as a basis for employee pro-environmental behaviour / Angela Ruepert and Linda Steg -- 7. Between- and within-person variability in employee pro-environmental behaviour / Hannes Zacher and Megan J. Bissing-Olson -- 8. Workplace green behaviour of managerial and professional employees in Hong Kong, / Yu Ha Cheung and Alicia S. M. Leung -- 9. Dare to care in environmental sustainability context: how managers can encourage employee pro-environmental behavior / Pascal Paillé -- 10. Leadership and employee pro-environmental behaviours / Bilal Afsar, Asad Shahjahan and Imad Shah -- 11. A virtuous cycle: how green companies grow green employees (and vice versa) / Thomas A. Norton, Stacey L. Parker, Matthew C. Davis, Sally V. Russell and Neal M. Ashkanasy -- 12. Organisational and employee symbolic environmental behaviours: an integrated multi-level framework / Lei Yang, Danae Manika and Frances Bowen -- 13. Motivation towards 'green' behaviour in the workplace: facilitating employee pro-environmental behaviour through participatory interventions / Paul C. Endrejat and Simone Kauffeld -- 14. A socio-motivational perspective on energy conservation in the workplace: the potential of motivational interviewing / Amelie V. Güntner, Florian E. Klonek and Simone Kauffeld -- 15. Enabling employees and breaking down barriers: Behavioural infrastructure for pro-Environmental behaviour / Simon Lockrey, Linda Brennan Karli Verghese, Warren Staples and Wayne Binney -- 16. Workplace energy use feedback in context / Niamh Murtagh, Birgitta Gatersleben and David Uzzell -- 17. The role of social norms in incentivising energy reduction in organisations / Peter Bradley, Shane Fudge and Matthew Leach -- 18. Embedding pro-environmental behaviour change in large organisations: perspectives on the complexity of the challenge / Terry Tudor and Cleber Dutra -- 19. Measuring and tracking pro-environmental behaviour among university employees / John Callewaert and Robert W. Marans -- 20. Spillover of pro-environmental behaviour / Caroline Verfuerth and Diana Gregory-Smith -- Index.
As the importance of corporate social responsibility grows, especially environmental responsibility, it is imperative to acknowledge the impact of the individual on a company's environmental performance. Given that individuals spend much of their day in the workplace, it is crucial to understand both their behaviours and the potential impact they can have on the company's environmental performance and the environment. Bringing together leading academics from various research fields, this Handbook examines the features and challenges within the area of employee pro-environmental behaviour. The Research Handbook on Employee Pro-Environmental Behaviour brings contributions that consolidate existing research in the field as well as adding new insights from organisational psychology, human resource management and social marketing. Drawing on studies from across the methodological spectrum, this Handbook covers a broad range of topics from the antecedents and consequences of employee pro-environmental behaviour to ways in which employers can encourage pro-environmental behaviour. This Handbook will be an invaluable tool for those engaged in research in employee environmental behaviour and sustainability. It will be especially useful for postgraduate students of environmental employee behaviour as well as environmental consultants and practitioners seeking to gain an understanding of employee behaviour
