Emerging research in sustainable energy and buildings for a low-carbon future
This book contains an introduction and 20 studies, each describing a recent research investigation in the area of sustainable and resilient buildings, built environment infrastructure and renewable energy. Contributions are from many different countries of the world and on a range of topics, representing a sample of research within the ‘sustainable energy and buildings’ field. The book begins with chapters on the sustainable design of buildings, followed by descriptions of issues relating to the renovation, restoration and reconstruction of existing buildings, or in one case a railway wagon. The next part of the book covers factors that form barriers or impediments to low or zero carbon buildings, followed by studies of issues relating to policy and certification. There then follow four chapters on various topics related to sustainable buildings – undergraduate courses, insurance issues, biophilia relating to buildings and thermal conductivity measurement. There are several chapters relating to renewable energy, followed by two chapters with a sustainable transport theme, one relating to electric vehicles, and the other about a sustainable road infrastructure. The final chapter is on the manufacture of sustainable building components for the UK housing sector. The book is of use to engineers, scientists, researchers, practitioners, academics and all those who are interested to develop and use sustainability science and technology for the betterment of our planet and humankind, and to mitigate climate change reality. .
Cultural Wagon in Villa María, Córdoba, Argentina -- Sustainable Housing Solutions -- Investigating the Application of LEED And BREEAM Certification Schemes for Buildings In Kazakhstan -- Coordinated Control Strategy to Improve Performance of PMSG Wind Power Systems -- Examining Undergraduate Courses Relevant to the Built Environment in the 4IR Era: A Delphi Study Approach -- Future Energy-Related House Renovations in Sweden: One-Stop-Shop as a Guide of the Renovation Decision-Making Journey -- Replacing Fossil Fuels by On-Site Sources of Energy in a Residential Building in Chalus, Iran -- Spectral Analysis of a Smart Switchable Polymer Dispersed Liquid Crystal (PDLC) Glazing for Building Application -- Crisis of Institutional Change: Improving Restoration and Reconstruction Methods for Estate Cultural Heritage -- System Dynamics Analysis of Energy Policies on Buildings Performance -- New Methodology for Measuring the Thermal Conductivity of Small Samples Using the Boxes Method With Reduced Sensors -- Simulation of an Adsorption Machine with Auxiliary Heater For CO2 - Neutral Air Conditioning of Electric Utility Vehicles -- Barriers to the Adoption of Zero Carbon Emissions In Buildings: The South African Narrative -- An Appraisal of the Level of Awareness and Adoption of Insurance Policies on Sustainable Construction -- Sustainable Road Infrastructure in Rural Areas in South Africa - A Preliminary Study -- To What Extent Is Biophilia Implemented in the Built Environment to Improve Health and Wellbeing? ? State of the Arts Review and a Holistic Biophilic Design Framework -- Greening Existing Garment Buildings: A Case of Sri Lanka -- Unearthing the Factors Impeding Sustainable Construction in Developing Countries ? A PLS-SEM Approach -- Designing Active Buildings -- The Possibility of Integrating Bio-Technologies into Building Envelops: A New Approach to Sustainable Buildings. .
