Phytochemicals and medicinal plants in food design : strategies and technologies for improved healthcare
"Phytochemicals and Medicinal Plants in Food Design: Strategies and Technologies for Improved Healthcare explores the therapeutic potential of various natural and novel phytochemicals in the design of new foods. Divided into two parts, the first section discusses plant-based secondary metabolites for healthcare, focusing on the health aspects of herbs and medicinal plants and nutraceuticals for livestock production and for the treatment of diseases such as HIV and diabetes. The authors also address the benefits of preserving indigenous knowledge of medicinal plants and current consumer views of health issues from foods. The second part delves into the design and utilization of healthy foods. This section discusses the application of novel designs and herbal formulations in conjunction with other biomolecules for the development and utilization for food products with health benefits. Key features: Encourages the preservation of indigenous knowledge on herbs and medicinal plants Explains the health-promoting effects of some herbs and medicinal plants Discusses the therapeutics and their mechanisms of actions of the biological compounds for food safety This informative volume will be valuable for faculty, students, scientists, researchers, and industry professionals in the development of superfoods from phytochemicals and medicinal plants"--
1. --Role of herbs in livestock production --2. --Plant-based anti-HIV agents in HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders --3. --Triterpenoids from Gymnema sylvestre R. Br (Periploca of the woods): biological significance in the treatment of diabetes --4. --Premna serratifolia L.: potential as nutraceutical panacea --5. --Survey of Indigenous knowledge of medicinal plants in India --6. --Consumer views on health issues arising from food products --7. --Gut microbiota: specific food design --8. --Health benefits of musa spp species (bananas) in inflammatory bowel disease --9. --Anticancer properties of silver nanoparticles from root extract of trigonella foenum-graecum --10. --Envisioning utilization of super grains for healthcare.
