Practical User Research : Everything You Need to Know to Integrate User Research to Your Product Development
1. Introduction to User Research -- 2. Understanding Product Development Phases -- 3. Fitting User Research Into Your Organization -- 4. Preparing for Your Research -- 5. Research Preparation -- 6. Research Methods: Analytics, Survey, and Card Sorting -- 7. Collecting Qualitative Data -- 8. Analyzing Qualitative Data and Interpreting the Findings -- 9. Participant Recruitment, Ethics, and Accessibility -- 10. Using Your New Skills in the Real World -- Appendix A. Screener Participant Recruitment Tablet Testing -- Appendix B. User Research Consent Form -- References.
Explore how User Research has been influenced over the years by a range of disciplines, such as HCI, usability, anthropology, cognitive psychology, ergonomics etc. This book aims to contribute to the User Research community and covers topics that will help UX professionals, students and stakeholders to gain a better understanding of what User Research is. Throughout the book you will acquire a practical skill set, ranging from how to get the research going, to building a case in order to receive the budget and resources needed. It will provide you with a clear account of how to organise your research, how to plan it, and how to manage stakeholders’ expectations throughout the project. You’ll see how to fit User Research into your organization and incorporate it through the different product development phases (Discovery, Alpha, Beta until Live), as well as how to grow a User Research team. Practical User Research reviews the methodologies used for User Research, looks at how to recruit participants along with how to collect and analyse data, finally focusing on how to interpret and present your findings. Cross-cultural research, accessibility and assisted digital research will also be discussed throughout this book. The final chapter gives you 10 project briefs, with which you will be able to apply your new skill set and put into practice what you have learnt.
