Identity and Ideology in Digital Food Discourse
"This book demonstrates how food as a discursive resource can be mobilized to accomplish actions of social, cultural, and political consequence. Drawing on various discourse analytic frameworks to digital communication, chapters examine interactions across a range of social media, including Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, and Instagram and from diverse linguistic and cultural contexts. Highlighting how users display sociability and aggression, create and challenge identities, draw social and cultural boundaries, and convey political and activist stances, the book illuminates the relationship between discourse, action, and ideology"--
Introduction. Food and digital discourse : constructing identities and ideologies across social media and cultural contexts / Cynthia Gordon and Alla Tovares -- Part I. Negotiating individual identities in online food contexts. Vegetables as a chore : constructing and problematizing a picky eater identity online / Didem İkizoğlu and Cynthia Gordon -- The multidimensionality of eating in contemporary information society : a corpus-based discourse analysis of online audience reactions to a TV show about food / Jana Declercq, Stéphan Tulkens, and Geert Jacobs -- Mediatizing the fashionable eater in @nytfood #tbt posts / Gwynne Mapes -- Part II. (Re)constructing and (re)imagining existing food-related language, practices, and actions in digital environments. Constructing veganism against the backdrop of omnivore cuisine : the use of adjectives and modifiers in vegan food blogs / Cornelia Gerhardt -- What if the customer is wrong? : debates about food on Yelp and TripAdvisor / Camilla Vásquez -- Mukbang as your digital tablemate : creating commensality online / Hanwool Choe -- Part III. Using food as a discursive and material resource for online activism and political engagement. Growing online : activist identities in the grow your own English blogging community / Isidoropaolo Casteltrione, Nadine Pierce, and Ana Tominc -- Food, activism, and Chips Oman on Twitter / Najma Al Zidjaly, Einas Al Moqbali, and Ahed Al Hinai -- Parmesan and patriotism on YouTube : food as ideology in today's Russia / Alla Tovares -- Afterword, Food, language, and social media : past, present, and future/ Alla Tovares and Cynthia Gordon.
