Precision Die Design
Volume is indexed by Thomson Reuters BCI (WoS).This book presents a new method for the design of the precision dies used in cold-forging, extrusion and drawing processes. The method is based upon die expansion, and attempts to provide a clear-cut theoretical basis for the selection of critical die dimensions for this group of precision dies when the tolerance on product diameter (or thickness) is specified. It also presents a procedure for selecting the minimum-production-cost die from among a set of design alternatives. The mathematical content of the book is relatively simple and will present no difficulty to those who have taken basic courses in strength of materials, engineering plasticity, calculus and metal machining. The book first presents the general theory of the design method. Then the specific theory for each process is presented. Worked examples are then used to illustrate the application of the method to the specific process. The design method generates competing design alternatives, and the final decision is based upon minimum production cost . The presentation concludes by treating a typical die-design problem in which the theories developed are used to make a final decision on the type of die to be used in making the specified product. Exercises are included for the reader.It is hoped that the design method, apart from providing solutions to simple design problems, will be applied as a first approximation to the solution of more complex problems. Tool designers, manufacturing engineers and researchers, persons studying and teaching the principles of tool design in universities and colleges, and those concerned with manufacturing in industries will all find this book useful. Ighadode (manufacturing engineering, U. of Benin, Nigeria) sets out an innovative methods for designing precision dies used in cold forging, extrusion, and drawing processes. He provides a clear-cut theoretical basis for selecting critical die dimensions for such dies when the tolerance on for the diameter or thickness of a product in specified, he says, and also describes a procedure for selecting the die with minimum production cost from a set of design alternatives. Besides being useful in its own right for simple design problems, he suggests, the approach might serve as a first approximation for solving more complex problems based on theory rather than rule of thumb. He includes exercises, but no index.
