Handbook of experimental game theory
"The Handbook of Experimental Game Theory offers a comprehensive analysis of the field, discussing foundational topics that are at the core of applied game theory. It highlights the nuances that scientific experiments have delivered to our understanding of strategic interactions among decision makers. Leading experts explore methodological considerations and games of complete and incomplete information to offer new directions for research in experimental game theory. Chapters demonstrate transformative behavioral research focused on classic topics in game theory such as cooperation and coordination games. Taking a scientific approach to the study of game theory, this innovative Handbook provides an insight into laboratory and field experiments that test game theoretic propositions and suggests new ways of modeling strategic behavior. It takes a forward-thinking position, addressing the challenges inherent in innovations surrounding the measurement of strategic behavior using experimental methods. This Handbook will prove to be a valuable resource for scholars and students who are looking to gain a broader understanding of experimental game theory and how to contribute to its advancement. It will also be of particular interest to researchers in experimental and behavioral economics"--
Contents: Introduction to the handbook of experimental game theory / C. Mónica Capra, Rachel T.A. Croson, Mary L. Rigdon and Tanya S. Rosenblat -- Part I: A sampling of methodological innovations -- 1. Stochastic game theory for social science: A primer on quantal response equilibrium / Jacob K. Goeree, Charles A. Holt and Thomas R. Palfrey -- 2.the experimetrics of depth-of-reasoning models / Peter G. Moffatt -- -- . The process of choice in games / Giorgio Coricelli, Luca Polonio and Alexander Vostroknutov -- 4. Games with continuous-time experimental protocols / Alexander L. Brown and Daniel G. Stephenson -- 5. Bargaining in the field / Marco Castillo and Ragan Petrie -- Part II: Experiments on static and dynamic games of complete information -- 6.recent advances in experimental coordination games / David J. Cooper and Roberto A. Weber -- 7.public goods, norms and cooperation / Marie Claire Villeval -- 8.cooperation among strangers with and without a monetary system / Maria Bigoni, Gabriele Camera and Marco Casari -- 9. Game-theoretic accounts of social norms: The role of normative expectations / Cristina Bicchieri and Alessandro Sontuoso -- 10. Strategies used by non-human primates in dynamic games / Mackenzie F. Webster, Julia Watzek and Sarah F. Brosnan -- 11. Reciprocity in games with unknown types / Garret Ridinger and Michael McBride -- 12. Behavioral rules / Carlos Alós-Ferrer and Johannes Buckenmaier -- Part III: Experiments on static and dynamic games of incomplete information -- 13. Strategic information transmission: A survey of experiments and theoretical foundations / Andreas Blume, Ernest K. Lai and Wooyoung Lim -- 14. Communication and information in games of collective decision: A survey of experimental results / César Martinelli and Thomas R. Palfrey -- 15. Voting game experiments with incomplete information: A survey / Jens Großer -- 16. Experiments in market design / Siqi Pan -- Index.
