Informatics Education in Healthcare : Lessons Learned
Introduction and Overview -- Managing Unspoken Assumptions in Online Education -- Training for Informatics Research Careers: History of Extramural Informatics Training at the National Library of Medicine -- Clinical Informatics Subspecialty Certification and Training -- Education in Nursing Informatics -- Applied Informatics for Health IT Managers -- Informatics for the Health Information Technology Workforce -- Online Continuing Education in Informatics—the AMIA 10x10 Experience -- Educating the Informatics-Enabled Physician.-New Bioinformatics Chapter -- Informatics Education for Health Administrators -- Bioinformatics for Biological Researchers—Using Online Modalities -- Clinical and Translational Research Informatics Education and Training -- Translating U.S. informatics Educational Programs for Non-U.S. Audiences -- Informatics Education in Low-Resource Settings -- Informatics Education in Healthcare: What Have We Learned? -- New Accreditation of Informatics Programs -- New Undergraduate Informatics Programs. .
This heavily revised second edition defines the current state of the art for informatics education in medicine and healthcare. This field has continued to undergo considerable changes as the field of informatics continues to evolve. The book features extensively revised chapters addressing the latest developments in areas including relevant informatics concepts for those who work in health information technology and those teaching informatics courses in clinical settings, techniques for teaching informatics with limited resources, and the use of online modalities in bioinformatics research education. New topics covered include how to get appropriate accreditation for an informatics program, data science and bioinformatics education, and undergraduate health informatics education. Informatics Education in Healthcare: Lessons Learned addresses the broad range of informatics education programs and available techniques for teaching informatics. It therefore provides a valuable reference for all involved in informatics education.
