Migration and mortality : social death, dispossession, and survival in the Americas
Murder it remains: migration, parasitic violence, and mortality / Miranda Cady Hallett and Jamie Longazel -- Death by enclosure: human rights organizations, migrant fatalities, and the delimitation of the global commons / Joseph Nevins -- Living and dying in El Norte: the framing of Maya migration / Alicia Ivonne Estrada -- Proprietors of death: an ethnography of the 2019 San Antonio Border Security Expo / Marianne Madoré and Nicholas Rodrigo -- Anonymous brown bodies: the productive power of the deadly U.S.-Mexico border / Nicholas De Genova -- Detention economies: commodifying social death / Deirdre Conlon and Nancy Hiemstra -- Heat-related illness and death among migrant farmworkers: dispatches from the Girasoles study / Nathan J. Mutic and Linda A. McCauley -- Morbidity and mortality in immigrant narratives: a public health perspective on state violence, social exclusion and experiences of harm among deportable immigrants / Daniel L. Stageman and Shirley P. Leyro -- Death and disabilities in divergent deportation contexts: revisiting the Hispanic epidemiological paradox / Juan M. Pedroza and Pil H. Chung -- The dead and living dead: legal violence and undocumented kidney failure patients in Atlanta, Georgia / Nolan Kline -- Expanding exclusion: migration, asylum, and transnational death in Mexico and the United States / Jared P. Van Ramshorst -- Better in jail there than dead here: deportation and (social) death in Honduras / Amelia Frank-Vitale -- Miskitu labor and immigrant struggles: against U.S. anti-Central American policies of social death / Karina Alma -- A politics of survival / Abby C. Wheatley -- Death in detention: pandemic, loss, and social mobilization / Anna M. Babel with Miranda Cady Hallett and Jamie Longazel.
"This book uses theories of social death and the construction of lives as disposable across legal, public health, criminal, carceral, media, labor, and medical arenas to examine the fatal stakes of migration policy and practice for migrants crossing the U.S. southern border"--
