Handbook of algal technologies and phytochemicals : Volume II: Phycoremediation, biofuels and global biomass production
Machine generated contents note: SECTION I Phycoremediation Applications -- ch. 1 Wastewater Phycoremediation by Microalgae for Sustainable Bioproduct Production / Amir Has him Mohd. Kassim -- ch. 2 Green Technology Applications for Algal Bloom Control / HalaY. El- Ksassas -- ch. 3 Natural Algal Photobioreactors for Sustainable Wastewater Treatment / T. V. Ramachandra -- SECTION II Algal Biofuels -- ch. 4 Opportunities and Challenges in Seaweeds as Feed Stock for Biofuel Production / Gokare A. Ravishankar -- ch. 5 Biodiesel Production from Microalgal Biomass: Challenges and Perspectives / Debabrata Das -- ch. 6 Carbon Dioxide Sequestration by Microalgae / R. Sarada -- ch. 7 Modulation of Lipid Biosynthesis by Stress in Diatoms / Benoit Schoefs -- ch. 8 Microalgal Biomass, Lipids, and Fatty Acids Production through Open or Closed Cultivation Systems: Challenges and Future Perspectives / Gokare A. Ravishankar -- ch. 9 Microalgae for Sustainable Fuel Technology: Coupling Photobioreactor and Bioelectrochemical System for Microalgae Cultivation and Hydrogen Generation / T.R. Sreekrishnan -- SECTION III Other Products of Economic Value -- ch. 10 Seaweed as Source of Plant Growth Promoters and Bio-Fertilizers: An Overview / Debasish Panda -- ch. 11 Algae: A Nutraceutical Supplement in Aquaculture / A. Catarina Guedes -- ch. 12 Techno-Economic Analysis of Multiple Scenarios for the Production of Microalgal Chemicals and Polymers / Costas Kiparissides -- ch. 13 Kappaphycus Farming for Socio-Economic Development of Coastal People in India / C. Periyasamy -- ch. 14 Diversity and Utilization of Marine Cyanobacteria / G. Subramanian -- SECTION IV Mass Production of Microalgae -- ch. 15 Open Cultivation Systems and Closed Photobioreactors for Microalgal Cultivation and Biomass Production / Gokare A. Ravishankar -- ch. 16 Bioprocessing of Microalgae for the Production of Value Compounds / Imene Chentir -- ch. 17 Production of Low-Cost EPA-Enriched Biomass with a Focus on the Filamentous Algal Strain Tribonema spp / Zhenqi Zhu -- ch. 18 New Strategies for the Design and Control of Raceway Reactors to Optimize Microalgae Production / Manuel Berenguel -- ch. 19 Sustainable Water and Nutrient Management in Algal Biomass Production Systems / Manjinder Singh -- ch. 20 Technologies for Separation and Drying of Algal Biomass for Varied Applications / Carlos Ricardo Soccol -- SECTION V Production of Algal Biomass and Products Worldwide -- ch. 21 Micro- and Macroalgae Production in Thailand for Food, Feed and Other Applications: Current Trends and Future Challenges / Boosya Bunnag -- ch. 22 Global Microalgal-Based Products for Industrial Applications / Gokare A. Ravishankar -- ch. 23 Macro and Micro Algal Impact on Marine Ecosystem: A Global Perspective / Ruma Pal.
