Emulsification and Polymerization of Alkyd Resins
Emulsification of vegetable oil-based resins was a daunting task when the author began his research, but the subsequent technology spawned a generation of stable emulsions for waterborne coatings based on vegetable oil-based alkyd resins, oils and fatty acids. Autoxidative polymerization of emulsified alkyd resins is an innovative and original contribution to emulsion technology, because conventional emulsion-polymerization is not applicable to alkyd resins. Emulsified alkyd particles are polymerized while dispersed in stable aqueous media—an original and patented innovation. Smooth and fa- drying alkyd coatings are generated from non-polymerized emulsions and air-dried with conventional metal driers, and have met with marketing success. The pre-polymerization innovation for emulsified alkyd particles provides very fast air-drying coatings that have potential markets for interior architectural latex coatings and waterborne pressure-sensitive adhesives and inks. The author demonstrates his knowledge of chemical reaction kinetics by employing a combination of oxygen concentration, internal reactor pressure and other reactor variables to finely control the rate and degree of autoxidative polymerization. He meticulously calculates surfactant chemistry by measuring hydrophile-lipophile balance values, and solubility parameters to emulsify characterized resins. The relationship between hydrophi- lipophile values and solubility parameters is shown in explicit equations. Homogenization equipment used during the course of this research to generate emulsions is shown in detailed drawings together with concise particle size and distribution data. The author reports research spawned internationally by his research in the fields of alkyd-acrylic hybrids, polyester and oil-modified urethane resins.
Alkyd Resins, Vegetable Oils and Autoxidative Polymerization -- Synthesis and Polymerization of Alkyds -- Emulsion and Kinetic Studies of Autoxidative Polymerization -- Experimental Results, Research and Commercialization of Technology.
