From the past to the future : the legacy of Lev Lipatov
Family memories : husband, father and grandfather / Elvira, Irina and Ekaterina Lipatov and grandchildren -- Lev Lipatov : my friend and renowned physicist / Eugene Levin -- Lev Lipatov : some personal reminiscences / A.H. Mueller -- BFKL - past and future / V.S. Fadin -- Basics of DGLAP / Yuri Dokshitzer -- Calculation of Green's functions in PT-symmetric quantum field theory / Carl M. Bender -- Rapidity evolution and small-x physics / Ian Balitsky -- Resummation at small x / Anna Maria Stasto -- From parton saturation to proton spin : the impact of BFKL equation and Reggeon evolution / Yuri V. Kovchegov -- The Odderon and BKP states in quantum chromodynamics / M.A. Braun and G.P. Vacca -- Lipatov's QCD high energy effective action : past and future / Martin Hentschinski -- High-energy scattering amplitudes in QED, QCD and supergravity / Agustı́n Sabio Vera -- N = 4 SYM quantum spectral curve in the BFKL regime / Mikhail Alfimov, Nikolay Gromov and Vladimir Kazakov -- DGLAP and BFKL equations in N = 4 SYM : from weak to strong coupling / A. Kotikov and A. Onishchenko -- The Regge limit of N = 4 SUSY Gauge theories / Jochen Bartels and Alex Prygarin -- The discrete BFKL pomeron and structure functions at low-x / H. Kowalski and D.A. Ross -- BFKL pomeron and the survival factor / V.A. Khoze, A.D. Martin and M.G. Ryskin -- A few topics in BFKL phenomenology at Hadron colliders / Agustı́n Sabio Vera -- Aspects of BFKL physics at HERA / H. Jung -- Aspects of BFKL physics at LEP, Tevatron and LHC / Victor T. Kim -- Lipatov's legacy and the future of deep inelastic scattering / Paul Newman.
"This book has been designed to honor Lev Nikolaevich Lipatov, as a person and as one of the leading scientists in theoretical high energy physics. The book begins with three articles on Lev as a person, written endearingly by family members, a very close friend and Physics professor, Eugene Levin, and another outstanding scientist, Alfred Mueller. The book further collects 18 articles by several scientists who closely knew and/or collaborated with Lev. With an overarching range over various subfields, the book summarizes parts of Lev's achievements, presents new results which are based upon Lev's work, and paints an outlook on possible future developments. Lev's theoretical work has had an influential impact on phenomenology and experimental high energy physics; befittingly, this collection also includes several articles on these experimental aspects"--
