Management of Irrigation and Water Supply Under Climatic Extremes : Empirical Analysis and Policy Lessons from India
This volume provides a theoretical basis for the argument that available research that analyzes the impacts of climate on hydrology, water resources, and water systems, without factoring in the effect of climate variability, are inadequate and often misleading. Also, the book empirically shows that the impacts of climate variability on hydrology and water resources, and irrigation, water supply & sanitation systems are far more pronounced than the likely impacts of future change in climate. The book discusses technological, institutional and policy alternatives for reducing these impacts on various competitive use sectors, especially, irrigation, and water supply and sanitation through case studies of river basins in different hydrological setting. To set the context, the volume first presents the long term trends in precipitation and temperature in different regions of India, and compares them against inter-annual, inter-seasonal and intra-day variations in climatic parameters, to show how their differential impacts on water resources.
Chapter 1. Climate Risks for Irrigation, Water Supply and Sanitation in India: Overview and Synthesis -- Chapter 2. Climate Variability and Its Implications for Water Management in India -- Chapter 3. Water Management Challenges of Climate Extremes: A Case Study of Adaptive Strategies and Management Options -- Chapter 4. Managing Climate-Induced Water Risks: A Case Study of Institutional Alternatives -- Chapter 5. Planning for Water Resources Management under Climatic Extremes: The Case Study of a Hyper-arid Region -- Chapter 6. Planning of Rural Water Supply Systems: Role of Climatic Factors and Other Considerations -- Chapter 7. A Framework for Assessing Climate-induced Risk for Water Supply, Sanitation and Hygiene -- Chapter 8. Mapping Climate-Induced Risk for Water Supply, Sanitation and Hygiene in Maharashtra -- Chapter 9. Predictions of Disease Spikes induced by Climate Variability: A Pilot Real Time Forecasting Model Project from Maharashtra, India -- Chapter 10. Mapping Climate-Induced Risk for Water Supply, Sanitation and Hygiene in Rajasthan -- Chapter 11. Action Plans for Building Climate-Resilient Water Supply and Sanitation Systems: Results from Case Studies -- Chapter 12. Managing Climate-Induced Water Stress across the Agro-ecological Regions of India: Options and Strategies. Chapter 13. Conclusions and Areas for Future Research.
