Modern control systems
Cover -- Half Title -- Title Page -- Copyright -- Dedication -- Brief Contents -- Contents -- Preface -- About the Authors -- Chapter 1. Introduction to Control Systems -- 1.1 Introduction -- 1.2 Brief History of Automatic Control -- 1.3 Examples of Control Systems -- 1.4 Engineering Design -- 1.5 Control System Design -- 1.6 Mechatronic Systems -- 1.7 Green Engineering -- 1.8 The Future Evolution of Control Systems -- 1.9 Design Examples -- 1.10 Sequential Design Example: Disk Drive Read System -- 1.11 Summary -- Skills Check -- Exercises -- Problems -- Advanced Problems -- Design Problems -- Terms and Concepts -- Chapter 2. Mathematical Models of Systems -- 2.1 Introduction -- 2.2 Differential Equations of Physical Systems -- 2.3 Linear Approximations of Physical Systems -- 2.4 The Laplace Transform -- 2.5 The Transfer Function of Linear Systems -- 2.6 Block Diagram Models -- 2.7 Signal-Flow Graph Models -- 2.8 Design Examples -- 2.9 The Simulation of Systems Using Control Design Software -- 2.10 Sequential Design Example: Disk Drive Read System -- 2.11 Summary -- Skills Check -- Exercises -- Problems -- Advanced Problems -- Design Problems -- Computer Problems -- Terms and Concepts -- Chapter 3. State Variable Models -- 3.1 Introduction -- 3.2 The State Variables of a Dynamic System -- 3.3 The State Differential Equation -- 3.4 Signal-Flow Graph and Block Diagram Models -- 3.5 Alternative Signal-Flow Graph and Block Diagram Models -- 3.6 The Transfer Function from the State Equation -- 3.7 The Time Response and the State Transition Matrix -- 3.8 Design Examples -- 3.9 Analysis of State Variable Models Using Control Design Software -- 3.10 Sequential Design Example: Disk Drive Read System -- 3.11 Summary -- Skills Check -- Exercises -- Problems -- Advanced Problems -- Design Problems -- Computer Problems -- Terms and Concepts.
For courses in Control Theory. Progressively develop students' problem-solving skills through an integrated design and analysis approach to real-world engineering problems Modern Control Systems presents the structure of feedback control theory and provides a sequence of exciting discoveries as students proceed through the text and problems. Written to be equally useful for all engineering disciplines, this text is organized around the concepts of control systems theory in the context of frequency and time domains. It provides coverage of both classical and modern methods of control engineering to give students a strong foundation in basic principles that they can utilize to explore advanced topics in later chapters. Emphasis is placed on real-world complex control systems and practical design applications as well as evolving design strategies like green engineering and human-centered design. Problem solving is strongly emphasized, with an abundance of problems of increasing complexity that help students learn to apply theory to computer-aided design and analysis concepts using MATLAB® and LabVIEW MathScript. The 14th Edition incorporates over 20% new or updated problems, with a total of over 980 end-of-chapter exercises, problems, advanced problems, design problems, and computer problems.
