Generative AI : How ChatGPT and Other AI Tools Will Revolutionize Business
This book will show how generative technology works and the drivers. It will also look at the applications – showing what various startups and large companies are doing in the space. There will also be a look at the challenges and risk factors. During the past decade, companies have spent billions on AI. But the focus has been on applying the technology to predictions – which is known as analytical AI. It can mean that you receive TikTok videos that you cannot resist. Or analytical AI can fend against spam or fraud or forecast when a package will be delivered. While such things are beneficial, there is much more to AI. The next megatrend will be leveraging the technology to be creative. For example, you could take a book and an AI model will turn it into a movie – at very little cost. This is all part of generative AI. It’s still in the nascent stages but it is progressing quickly. Generative AI can already create engaging blog posts, social media messages, beautiful artwork and compelling videos. The potential for this technology is enormous. It will be useful for many categories like sales, marketing, legal, product design, code generation, and even pharmaceutical creation. What You Will Learn The importance of understanding generative AI The fundamentals of the technology, like the foundation and diffusion models How generative AI apps work How generative AI will impact various categories like the law, marketing/sales, gaming, product development, and code generation. The risks, downsides and challenges. Who This Book is For Professionals that do not have a technical background. Rather, the audience will be mostly those in Corporate America (such as managers) as well as people in tech startups, who will need an understanding of generative AI to evaluate the solutions.
Chapter 1: Introduction to Generative AI -- Chapter 2: Data -- Chapter 3: AI Fundamentals -- Chapter 4: Core Generative AI Technology -- Chapter 5: Large Language Models -- Chapter 6: Auto Code Generation -- Chapter 7: The Transformation of Business -- Chapter 8: The Impact on Major Businesses -- Chapter 9: The Future.
