Mechanisms of arsenic toxicity and tolerance in plants
1 Arsenic Uptake and Transportation in Plants -- 2. Plant Responses to Arsenic Toxicity: Morphology and physiology -- 3. Consequences of Paddy Cultivation in Arsenic Contaminated Paddy Fields of Lower Indo-Gangetic Plane on Arsenic Accumulation Pattern and Selected Grain Quality Traits: A Preliminary Assessment -- 4.Arsenic-induced Oxidative Stress in Plants -- 5. Plants Response and Tolerance to Arsenic-induced oxidative Stress -- 6. Arsenic Toxicity in Crop Plants: Responses and Remediation Strategies -- 7. Plant’s Adaptive Mechanisms Under Arsenic Pollution -- 8. Mitigating Arsenic Toxicity in Plants: Role of Microbiota -- 9. Role of Plant-Microorganism Interactions in Plant Tolerance to Arsenic -- 10. Interaction of Plants and Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungi in Responses to Arsenic Stress: A Collaborative Tale Useful to Manage Contaminated Soil -- 11. Potentials of Aquatic Plants and Algae for Arsenic Accumulation -- 12. Algae as a Budding Tool for Mitigation of Arsenic from Aquatic Systems -- 13. A Glimpse on Uptake Kinetics and Molecular Responses of Arsenic Tolerance in Rice Plants -- 14. Transcriptomics of Arsenic Tolerance in Plants -- 15. Agronomics Management for Arsenic Stress Mitigation. 16.Environmental Chemistry, Fate and Speciation of Arsenic in Groundwater-Soil-Crop Systems -- 17. Treatment of Arsenic Contaminated Water: Mechanism of Treatment Methods -- 18. Status of Arsenic Toxicity in the World -- 19. Arsenic toxicity: A South Asian perspective
Arsenic is likely the most talked-about metalloid in the modern world because of its toxic effects on both animal and plants. Further, arsenic pollution is now producing negative impacts on food security, especially in many south Asian countries. Since plants are a major food source, their adaptation to As-rich environments is essential, as is being informed about recent findings on multifarious aspects of the mechanisms of arsenic toxicity and tolerance in plants. Although numerous research works and review articles have been published in journals, annual reviews and as book chapters, to date there has been no comprehensive book on this topic. This book contains 19 informative chapters on arsenic chemistry, plant uptake, toxicity and tolerance mechanisms, as well as approaches to mitigation. Readers will be introduced to the latest findings on plant responses to arsenic toxicity, various tolerance mechanisms, and remediation techniques. As such, the book offers a timely and valuable resource for a broad audience, including plant scientists, soil scientists, environmental scientists, agronomists, botanists and molecular biologists
