Mathematical analysis in interdisciplinary research
Quasilinear Operator Equation at Resonance (E.A. Skachkova) -- Control problem for a system of ODE with nonseparated multipoint and integral conditions (Abdullayev) -- On generalized convexity and superquadracity (Abramovich) -- Well-posedness of nonsmooth Lurie dynamical systems involving maximal monotone operators (D. Goeleven) -- Numerical method for calculation of unsteady fluid flow egimes in hydraulic networks of complex structure (K.R. Aida-zade) -- Numerical solution to inverse problems of recovering special type source of a parabolic equation (Rahimov).-. Using an Integrating Factor to Transform a Second Order BVP to a Fixed Point Problem (R. Anderson) -- Volterra relatively compact perturbations of the Laplace operator (Biyarov) -- Computational Aspects of the General Rodrigues Problem (Chender) -- Approximation by Max-Product Operators of Kantorovich Type (G. Gal) -- Variational Inequalities and General Equilibrium models (Milasi) -- The strong convergence of Douglas-Rachford methods for the split feasibility problem (Dong) -- Some Triple Integral Inequalities for Functions Defined on 3-Dimensional Bodies Via Gauss-Ostrogradsky Identity (Dragomir) -- Optimal emergency evacuation with uncertainty (Scrimali) -- On Global Hyperbolicity of Spacetimes: Some Recent Advances and Open Problems (Papadopoulos) -- Spectrum Perturbations of Linear Operators in a Banach Space (Gil) -- Perturbations of Operator Functions. A Survey (Gil) -- Representation variety for the rank one affine group (Munoz) -- A Regularized Stochastic Subgradient Projection Method for an Optimal Control Problem In a Stochastic Partial Differential Equation (A. Khan) -- A survey on interpolative and hybrid contractions (Karapınar) -- Identifying the Computational Problem in Applied Statistics (P. Kitsos) -- Fractional Integral Operators in Linear Spaces (Kuang) -- Anisotropic Elasticity and Harmonic Functions in Cartesian Geometry (P. Vafeas) -- Hyers-Ulam stability of symmetric biderivations on Banach algebras (Park) -- Some new classes of Higher order Strongly generalized preinvex functions (A. Noor) -- Existence of global solutions and stability results for a non linear wave problem in unbounded domains (P. Papadopoulos) -- Congestion control and optimal maintenance of communication networks with stochastic cost functions: a variational formulation (Raciti) -- Nonlocal Problems for Hyperbolic Equations (S. Pulkina) -- On the Solution of Boundary Value Problems for Loaded Ordinary Differential Equations (E. Providas) -- Set-Theoretic Properties of Generalized Topologically Open Sets in Relator Spaces (Száz) -- On Degenerate Boundary Conditions and Finiteness of the Spectrum of Boundary Value Problems (T. Sultanaev) -- Deceptive systems of differential equations (Schechter) -- Cooperative and noncooperative partial differential systems (Schechter) -- Some Certain Classes of Combinatorial Numbers and Polynomials Attached to Dirichlet Characters: Their Construction by p-adic Integration and Applications to Probability Distribution Functions (Simsek) -- Pathwise stability and positivity of semi-discrete approximations of the solution of nonlinear stochastic differential equations (S. Stamatiou) -- A Solution of polynomial equations (N. Tsirivas) -- Meir-Keeler sequential contractions and Pata fixed point results (Turinici) -- Existence and stability of equilibrium points under the influence of Poynting-Robertson and Stokes drags in the restricted three-body problem (E. Perdiou) -- Nearest Neighbour Forecasting Using Sparse Data Representation (Thomakos) -- On Two Kinds of the Hardy-Type Integral Inequalities in the Whole Plane with the Equivalent Forms (Rassias) -- Product formulae for non-autonomous Gibbs semigroup (A. Zagrebnov).
This contributed volume provides an extensive account of research and expository papers in a broad domain of mathematical analysis and its various applications to a multitude of fields. Presenting the state-of-the-art knowledge in a wide range of topics, the book will be useful to graduate students and researchers in theoretical and applicable interdisciplinary research. The focus is on several subjects including: optimal control problems, optimal maintenance of communication networks, optimal emergency evacuation with uncertainty, cooperative and noncooperative partial differential systems, variational inequalities and general equilibrium models, anisotropic elasticity and harmonic functions, nonlinear stochastic differential equations, operator equations, max-product operators of Kantorovich type, perturbations of operators, integral operators, dynamical systems involving maximal monotone operators, the three-body problem, deceptive systems, hyperbolic equations, strongly generalized preinvex functions, Dirichlet characters, probability distribution functions, applied statistics, integral inequalities, generalized convexity, global hyperbolicity of spacetimes, Douglas-Rachford methods, fixed point problems, the general Rodrigues problem, Banach algebras, affine group, Gibbs semigroup, relator spaces, sparse data representation, Meier-Keeler sequential contractions, hybrid contractions, and polynomial equations. Some of the works published within this volume provide as well guidelines for further research and proposals for new directions and open problems.
