Deregulated electricity market : the smart grid perspective
Deregulated electricity market structure / Baseem Khan -- Different methods for frequency, angle, and voltage monitoring in deregulated power systems for smart grids / Rajesh Kumar, Kusum Lata Agarwal, and Avdhesh Sharma -- Load frequency and voltage control pricing in deregulated environment electric industry / Aditya Kachhwaha, Ashish Godara, and Akhil Ranjan Garg -- Grid integration of wind energy generation system and grid code requirements / Kishor V. Bhadane, Dipak P. Patil, and Sunildatta S. Kadlag -- Effect of inter-turn short-circuit fault on a wind energy conversion system connected to the grid / Youssef Krim, Saber Krim, and Mohamed Faouzi Mimouni -- Scrutiny of PV biomass stand-alone hybrid system for rice mill electrification / Yashwant Sawle -- Maximum power point tracking techniques for renewable energy generation / Safwan Nadweh, Ola Khaddam, Ghassan Hayek, Ammar Aldiwany, and Ali Mohamad Hatra -- A performance analysis on robust primary control of ac microgrid with mitigation of measurement noise / Mahendra Bhadu, Bhuvnesh Rathor, Kusum Verma, S.K. Bishnoi, and O.P. Mahela -- Energy management of the electrical vehicles in a smart grid environment : a comprehensive review / Ashenafi Selema -- Shunt active filter control for harmonics mitigation in a smart electricity grid / Ola Khaddam, Safwan Nadweh, and Ammar Aldiwany -- Distributed generation-based power quality analysis / Kishor V. Bhadane, Dipak P. Patil, Anil S. Dube, and Sunildatta S. Kadlag -- Integration issues of distributed generation sources in the DC microgrid system / Mulusew Ayalew and Baseem Khan -- Integration of energy storage systems in active distribution systems / Makda Gebremedhin Gebremeskel.
"Energy demand will increase by 70% by the year of 2030, and with the continual day-by-day depletion of traditional energy sources, there is a vast need to continue the development of dependable renewable energy sources that are locally available and that enhance energy generation efficiency. This important resource, Deregulated Electricity Market: A Smart Grid Perspective, presents the topical issues of the deregulated electricity market, focusing on the integration of renewable sources with engineering approaches. The volume identifies and explores the deregulated electricity market s and looks at different renewable generation techniques and their operation and control issues. It considers the various power quality issues with renewable energy generation interfaced with smart grids and their solution techniques. It also addresses the various integration challenges of the energy storage systems and energy management of electric vehicles in the smart grid environment. Topics include methods for frequency, angle, and voltage monitoring in smart grids; load frequency and voltage control pricing; grid integration of wind energy generation systems; tracking and management techniques; performance analysis; and more. This volume is an important resource for scientists, researchers, students, and academicians across the globe concerned with adopting and implementing novel research on smart power grids and renewable energy systems"--
