Green-based nanocomposite materials and applications
Chapter 1. Introduction to green based nanocomposites: from polymer discovery to eco-friendly materials (Felipe Avalos-Belmontes) -- Chapter 2. Nanofillers and nanomaterials for green based nanocomposites (Francisco J. González) -- Chapter 3. Sustainable Fillers for Elastomeric Compounds (Saul Utrera-Barrios) -- Chapter 4. Overview of natural nanocomposites and applications (Y.D. Franco-Aguirre) -- Chapter 5. High performance thermoplastic starch/vermiculite bionanocomposites (Y. Rodríguez Cueto) -- Chapter 6. Chitin and Chitosan Nanocomposites: From the Synthesis to the application (E. Oyervides-Muñoz) -- Chapter 7. Composites based on chitosan and inorganic materials for bio-medical applications (S. M. L. Silva) -- Chapter 8. Biodegradable Acrylic Polymers and Nanocomposites (Felipe Avalos-Belmontes) -- Chapter 9. Nanocomposites comprise of collagen and acrylate-derived polymers for biomedical applications (Cano Salazar L.F) -- Chapter 10. PVA blends and nanocomposites, properties and applications: A review (P. F. Vera Garcia) -- Chapter 11. Diversifying Polyhydroxyalkanoates: Synthesis, Properties, Processing and Applications (F. J. Rivera Gálvez) -- Chapter 12. Polyhydroxybutyrate-base nanocomposites and blends. Applications (Anayansi Estrada-Monje) -- Chapter 13. Poly(butylene succinate). Functional nanocomposite materials and applications (Diana Iris Medellín-Banda) -- Chapter 14. Sustainable Approach of the Natural Rubber (H. Aguilar-Bolados) -- Chapter 15. Gum based green nanocomposites and their applications (Suman Thakur) -- Chapter 16. Nanocomposites based on biodegradable polymers for biomedical applications (Víctor Javier Cruz-Delgado) -- Chapter 17. Review and Analysis of biological tests on nanomaterials to be applied in biological area (C.G. Cuellar-Gaona) -- Chapter 18. Harnessing the Potential of Fibrous Polyester Composites Meant for Bioactive Medical Devices (Graciela Morales) -- Chapter 19. Nanotechnology applied to the management of fungal diseases in tropical crops: A review (C. Pabón-Mora) -- Chapter 20. The role of polymer-based materials in sustainable, safe and effi-cient metal batteries (Ana López-Cudero).
This book presents a review of preparation methods for environmentally friendly nanocomposite materials. It describes the combination of biodegradable and biocompatible polymer matrices with nanoparticles, leading to finished products preferably prepared by sustainable methods. The chapters also describe how the addition of synthetic or non-biodegradable particles can influence the properties of the final products. This book presents a general overview of the process from the preparation to the final applications of green nanocomposites. In addition, the book also details the trends, challenges, and prospects of this type of composites. The content can be divided into two sections. The first one presents a brief introduction about the importance of keeping the environment free of non-degradable pollutants. It also describes fundamentals, trends, and general applications of green materials. The second section focuses on the description of some of the green-based materials most used nowadays and other innovative materials, just like elastomers of natural origin. The book comprises the reintegration of these materials into the environment, followed by some biomedical, biological, and energy storage applications.
