The Art of Doing Algebraic Geometry
M. C. Brambilla, O. Dumitrescu, E. Postinghel, “Weyl cycles on the blow-up of $P^4$ at eight points" -- A. Brigaglia, “Simson’s reconstruction of Apollonius’ Loci Plani. Modern ideas in classical language” -- F. Catanese, “Kummer quartic surfaces, strict self-duality, and more” -- L. Chiantini e Giorgio Ottaviani, “A footnote to a footnote to a paper of B. Segre” -- T. Dedieu and E. Sernesi, “Deformations and extensions of Gorenstein weighted projective spaces” -- V. Di Gennaro and Davide Franco, “Intersection cohomology and Severi Varieties” -- O. Dumitrescu and R. Miranda, “Cremona Orbits in $\mathbb P^4$ and Applications” -- F. Flamini and P. Supino, “On some components of Hilbert schemes of curves” -- Gerard van der Geer, “Siegel modular forms of degree two and three and invariant theory” -- A. Laface and L. Ugaglia, “On intrinsic negative curves” -- Angelo F. Lopez, with an appendix by Thomas Dedieu, “On the extendibility of projective varieties: a survey” -- M. Mella, “The minimal Cremona degree of quartic surfaces” -- M. Mendes Lopes and R. Pardini, “On the degree of the canonical map of a surface of general type” -- C. Pedrini, “Hyperkæhler varieties with a motive of abelian type” -- F. Polizzi and P. Sabatino, “Finite quotients of surface braid groups and double Kodaira fibrations” -- Y. Prokhorov and M. Zaidenberg, “Affine cones over Fano-Mukai fourfolds of genus 10 are flexible” -- J. Roé, “Enriques diagrams under pullback by a double cover” -- E. Rogora, “The “projective spirit” in Segre’s lectures on differential equations”. .
This volume is dedicated to Ciro Ciliberto on the occasion of his 70th birthday and contains refereed papers, offering an overview of important parts of current research in algebraic geometry and related research in the history of mathematics. It presents original research as well as surveys, both providing a valuable overview of the current state of the art of the covered topics and reflecting the versatility of the scientific interests of Ciro Ciliberto.
