Sovereignty in conflict : political, constitutional and economic dilemmas in the EU
"This edited collection provides a valuable addition to the literature on conflicts of sovereignty in Europe. The elaboration and exemplification of different types of sovereignty conflict, foundational, institutional and territorial, is illuminating." Paul Craig, Emeritus Professor of English Law, St John’s College, Cambridge University, UK “This book provides numerous insightful illustrations of sovereignty claims by a diverse set of actors, such as nationalist parties, irredentist movements, regions and the EU. In a multi-level polity such as the EU, which is based on the notion of shared sovereignty, conflicts can be very contentious. This book should be read by all students who wish to grasp the evolving nature of European politics. " Jan Zielonka, Professor of European Politics, University of Oxford and Venice Ca Foscari, UK and Italy This edited volume brings together leading international researchers in an attempt to disentangle and understand the multiple conflicts of sovereignty within the European polity in the aftermath of the 2008 economic crisis. While most research on sovereignty focuses on its international dimensions, what makes this volume distinctive is the focus on the mobilization of sovereignty discourses in national politics. Contrary to tired paradigms studying clashes between national and supranational sovereignty, the chapters of the volume offer a provocation for the readers – what if these old vertical conflicts of sovereignty are increasingly complemented by horizontal conflicts between executives and parliaments at both the national and international level? Julia Rone is a postdoctoral researcher at the Minderoo Centre for Technology and Democracy at CRASSH, University of Cambridge, UK. Nathalie Brack is Associate Professor in Political Science at the Université libre de Bruxelles and Visiting Professor at the College of Europe, Belgium. Ramona Coman is Professor in Political Science at the Université libre de Bruxelles and President of the Institute for European Studies, Belgium. Amandine Crespy is Associate Professor in Political Science at the Université libre de Bruxelles, and Visiting Professor at the College of Europe, Belgium.
Chapter 1: Introduction -- Part 1: Constitutional Debates around Sovereignty -- Chapter 2: Conflicting Sovereignties and the Sustainability of the Brexit State -- Chapter 3: Procedural Battles on Sovereignty: Interpreting the Rules in the House of Commons -- Chapter 4: Sovereignty, democratic legitimacy and the problem of the demos in Spain: the case of Catalonia -- Chapter 5: Defending sovereignty in the name of post-sovereignty: Liberal and illiberal constitutional idioms in the EU -- Chapter 6: The Struggle over Direct Democracy in Germany: ‘Populist’ Demand for Popular Sovereignty? -- Part 2: Sovereignty in socio-economic debates -- Chapter 7: Sovereignty Conflicts and Their Alternatives. Politicising European Labour Politics in French, Irish, and Swiss EU Referendum Debates (2000-2020) -- Chapter 8: The Technocratic Populist Loop in EU’s Eastern and Southern Periphery: between democratic representation and technocratic solutions for economic governance -- Chapter 9: Selective politicization of sovereignty: Hungary's economic embedding and political disembedding from the EU -- Part 3: Sovereignty debates in party politics -- Chapter 10: “What is it, and why does it matter? The meaning of sovereignty in the Rassemblement National’s critique of European integration” -- Chapter 11: Sovereignty in the Populist Radical Right Discourse: The Right of the People and the Right of the Peoples -- Chapter 12: Left-wing Populism and Sovereignty: an Analysis of Jean-Luc Mélenchon’s Discourse -- Chapter 13: Conclusion.
