Experimental physics compact for scientists : mechanics, thermodynamics, electrodynamics, optics & quantum physics
This book compactly provides the fundamentals of experimental physics for students of the natural sciences who are taking physics as a minor or major subject. Interspersed throughout the main text are numerous exercises with pre-calculated solutions, and the most important formulas are listed again at the end of each chapter. This book enables the reader to get an overview of the individual areas and is thus ideally suited to accompany lectures in the study as well as for exam preparation. The textbook originated from a lecture on "Experimental Physics for Natural Scientists" at the University of Tübingen and is intended for all students in subjects such as biochemistry, bioinformatics, biology, chemistry, computer science, mathematics, pharmacy, geoecology, and earth sciences. The first part of the book deals with Newtonian mechanics including continuum mechanics and oscillations and waves. The second part deals with the basic concepts of thermodynamics with emphasis on the statistical explanations. The third part covers electromagnetic phenomena, especially electrostatics and magnetostatics, electrodynamics, and an introduction to electronic components and circuits. Optics with its subfields, ray optics, wave optics, and quantum optics, is presented in the fourth part. In the fifth and last part of the book, the reader receives an overview of the basic principles of quantum mechanics, including atomic and nuclear physics. For this second edition, the content has been improved and supplemented in many places, including a new section on heat transport and phase transitions, as well as an outlook into alternative interpretations of quantum mechanics. The author Sebastian Slama studied physics at ETH Zurich and received his PhD in quantum optics from the University of Tübingen. In 2011, he was appointed as a junior lecturer and has since been particularly involved in physics education for natural scientists in Tübingen. In 2012, he completed his habilitation in experimental physics and has been an apl. prof. at the University of Tübingen since 2017. In 2015, he received the teaching award of the University of Tübingen for the comprehensible preparation of physics teaching content for students of STEM subjects This book is a translation of an original German edition. The translation was done with the help of artificial intelligence (machine translation by the service DeepL.com). A subsequent human revision was done primarily in terms of content, so that the book will read stylistically differently from a conventional translation.
