Synthesis and applications of nanoparticles
Chapter 1. Introduction to Nanotechnology -- Chapter 2. Nanomaterials, their types and properties -- Chapter 3. Synthesis Route of Nanoparticles by Physical Route -- Chapter 4. Synthesis Route of Nanomaterials by Chemical Route -- Chapter 5. Synthesis Route of Nanomaterials by Biological Route -- Chapter 6. Structural and Morphological Characterization of Nanomaterials -- Chapter 7. Optical Characterization of Nanomaterials-I -- Chapter 8. Optical Characterization of Nanomaterials-II -- Chapter 9. Magnetic Characterization of Nanomaterials -- Chapter 10. Electrical characterization of Nanomaterials -- Chapter 11. Electromagnetic characterizations of nanomaterials -- Chapter 12. Electromagnetic Characterization of Nanomaterials- Preliminary study of 60-GHz millimetre wave li-NGD circuit in microstrip technology -- Chapter 13. Nanomaterials for Antenna Applications -- Chapter 14. Advancement in Crops and Agriculture by Nanomaterials -- Chapter 15. Micronutrient Nanoparticles: Synthesis, Properties and Application in Agriculture -- Chapter 16. Phytosynthesis of Silver nanoparticles and their Role as antimicrobials -- Chapter 17. MICROBICIDAL NANOPARTICLES -- Chapter 18. Advancement in Water Purification by Nanomaterials -- Chapter 19. Nanotechnology in Healthcare -- Chapter 20. Graphene Quantum Dots and their Hybrid Hydrogels: A Multifaceted Platform for Theranostic Applications -- Chapter 21. Functionalised nanoparticles in drug delivery:Strategies to enhance direct nose-to-brain drug delivery via integrated nerve pathways -- Chapter 22. ENVIRONMENTAL NANOMEDICINE -- Chapter 23. Development of Nanostructured Material by Severe Plastic Deformation -- Chapter 24. NANOTECHNOLOGY FOR FUNCTIONAL/HIGH PERFORMANCE/ SMART TEXTILES -- Chapter 25. Toxicity of nanomaterials- An overview.
This book provides thorough information on various nanomaterials, techniques for their synthesis and characterization, and examines their agricultural, environmental, biomedical, and clinical applications. The initial part of the book presents different nanomaterials; covers various physical, chemical, and biological methods for their synthesis; and reviews techniques to characterize their physicochemical and biological properties. Subsequently, the chapters of the book focus on the innovative applications of nanomaterials in disease diagnosis, tissue engineering, regenerative medicine, and cancer therapy. It also explores the green biosynthesis of nanomaterials and highlights their biological applications. Towards the end, the book examines the toxicity and biocompatibility of various nanomaterials. It aims to serve as a resource guide for researchers and biomedical clinicians working with nanomaterials.
