Industrial powder coating : Basics, Methods, Practical Application
This specialist book is a comprehensive practical reference work in the field of industrial powder coating. It offers a systematic and complete description of the fundamentals, applications and procedures for the safe control of processes. The methods of paint production, properties of the powder paint types, application technology and measurement and test methods, are clearly presented and dealt with in detail. In addition, the pretreatment as well as the trouble-shooting in the case of paint defects and their avoidance, form the focus of this book. The present edition has been completely revised and the Environment chapter has been added. This book is a translation of the original German 5th edition, Industrielle Pulverbeschichtung by Judith Pietschmann, published by Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature in 2019. The translation was done with the help of artificial intelligence (machine translation by the service DeepL.com). A subsequent human revision was done primarily in terms of content, so that the book will read stylistically differently from a conventional translation. Springer Nature works continuously to further the development of tools for the production of books and on the related technologies to support the authors. The content Powder coatings - application - suspension and conveyor technology - baking of powder coatings - surface pretreatment of metals - new applications of powder coatings - measuring and testing technology - defects in the coating - paint stripping - environment The target groups Decision-makers (department heads, planners, developers) in production departments in the metalworking industry who deal with surface finishing Industrial companies of surface technology; Contract coating companies; Companies that place orders for powder coating; Manufacturer of systems and application and test devices Students of mechanical engineering with a focus on production and surface technology as well as materials science The Author After many years in research and development in industry, Dipl.-Ing. Judith Pietschmann is now working in the field of surface treatment.
Powder coatings -- Application -- Hanger and conveyor technology -- Burn-in of powder coatings -- Surface pretreatment of metals -- New applications of powder coatings -- Measurement and testing technology -- Defects in the coating -- Paint stripping -- Environment.
