Optimization of pharmaceutical processes
Process control and intensification of solution crystallization (Gong) -- Method of characteristics for the efficient simulation of population balance models (D. Braatz) -- Linearized parameter estimation methods for modeled crystallization phenomena using in-line measurements and its application to optimization of partially seeded crystallization in pharmaceutical processes (Hirasawa) -- Mathematical modeling of different breakage PBE kernels using Monte Carlo simulation results (Kumar) -- Optimization of tablet coating Mayur M Patel Continuous twin screw granulation processing (Douroumis) -- Continuous powder feeding: Equipment design and material considerations (Crean) -- Ultrasound for improved encapsulation and crystallization with focus on pharmaceutical applications (Gogate) -- Nonsmooth modeling for simulation and optimization of continuous pharmaceutical manufacturing processes (Patrascu) -- Integrated synthesis, crystallization, filtration and drying of active pharmaceutical ingredients: a model-based digital design framework for process optimization and control (K. Nagy) -- Fast model predictive control of modular systems for continuous manufacturing of pharmaceuticals (D. Braatz). -- Dynamic modeling and control of a continuous biopharmaceutical manufacturing plant (Mansouri) -- Overview of scheduling methods for pharmaceutical production (T. Maravelias) -- Model-based risk assessment of mAb developability (Glassey) -- Design framework and tools for solid drug product manufacturing processes (Sugiyama) -- Challenges and solutions in drug product process development from a material science perspective (Stauffer).
Optimization of Pharmaceutical Processes presents contributions from leading authorities in the fields of optimization and pharmaceutical manufacturing. Formulated within structured frameworks, practical examples and applications are given as guidance to apply optimization techniques to most aspects of pharmaceutical processes from design, to lab and pilot scale, and finally to manufacturing. The increasing demand for better quality, higher yield, more efficient-optimized and green pharmaceutical processes, indicates that optimal conditions for production must be applied to achieve simplicity, lower costs and superior yield. The application of such methods in the pharmaceutical industry is not trivial. Quality of the final product is of major importance to human health and the need for deep knowledge of the process parameters and the optimization of the processes are imperative. The volume, which includes new methods as well as review contributions will benefit a wide readership including engineers in pharmaceuticals, chemical, biological, to name just a few.
