Nanoscopy and nanospectroscopy
"This book builds a narrative on the near-field optical and spectroscopic studies with an emphasis on plasmonic and photonic assisted nano-optics as a tool for super-lensing. Deliberations on near-field studies using confined light in various applications are included along with their commercial implications. Single molecule detection utilizing efficient surface-enhanced Raman scattering phenomenon in the far-field and plasmonic tip-enhanced Raman scattering studies in the near-field measurements for fast analysis upto trace level is discussed. Features: Covers the broad area of nano-optical spectroscopy from the perspective of putting the concepts and innovations in the field to use. Discusses entire spectra of near-field optics and spectroscopy using light. Includes dielectric nanophotonics and optical confinement. Studies acoustic phonon confinement for analysis of chemical, biological and other materials. Explores gas/chemical sensing using surface plasmon resonance (SPR) in the Kretschmann configuration. This book is aimed at graduate students and researchers in material science, analytical chemistry, nanotechnology, and electrical engineering"--
Theory of light scattering and applications / T.R. Ravindran, Sandip Dhara -- Plasmonic and optical confinement / Binaya Kumar Sahu, Pratap K. Sahoo, Sandip Dhara -- Dielectric and metallo-dielectric nanophotonics and optical confinement / Sushil Mujumdar, Rabisankar Samanta and Sandip Mondal -- Optical nanoscopy / Kishore K. Madapu -- Far-field spectroscopy and surface enhanced Raman spectroscopy (SERS) / Debanjan Bhowmik, Chandrabhas Narayana -- Near-field nano-spectroscopy and tip enhanced Raman spectroscopy (TERS) / Andrey Krayev, Jeremy F. Schultz and Nan Jiang , Sreetosh Goswami, Agnès Tempez, Sharad Ambardar, Dmitri V. Voronine, Naresh Kumar, Kaiyuan Yao, Shuai Zhang2 Emanuil Yanev, Kathleen McCreary, Hsun-Jen Chuang,Matthew R. Rosenberger, Thomas Darlington, Berend T. Jonker, James C. Hone, D.N. Basov, P. James Schuck, Avinash Patsha -- Conclusions and future directions.
