Plant-based foods : ingredients, technology and health aspects
An Overview of Plant-based Food Alternatives (PBFAs): Classification, Textural and Sensory Characteristics -- Production of Meat Analogs and Consumer Preferences -- Fortification of Plant-based Food Analogs -- Role of Fermentation in Plant-based Food Production and Non-dairy Fermented Foods -- Plant-based Food Printing at a Glance -- Bioaccesibility and Bioavailability of Vitamins, Minerals and Bioactive Compounds in Plant-based Foods -- Health Effects of Plant-based Foods and Their Components.
The plant-based food industry has flourished in recent years, with a steady stream of exciting product launches reaching the worldwide market. Consumers have become interested in a plant-based diet that includes grains, legumes, seeds, nuts, fruits and vegetables. There are a number of factors involved in this trend, including consumer opposition to harming animals, health problems such as lactose intolerance, desire for a healthier lifestyle and environmental awareness. Several books related to plant-based diets and cookbooks have been published for vegans and vegetarians, however there is no research work related to plant-based production, technology, ingredients and their qualitative and nutritional properties based on the results of scientific studies. Future Food: Plant-Based Products is the first book where the comparison of plant-based products with other alternatives are explored in detail. Novel plant-based product formulations, production and results of recent studies are examined in detail in this book. Plant-based products are mainly alternatives to dairy and meat products, and this text includes comprehensive chapters on meat substitutes and plant-based non-dairy products. In the opening chapter the main ingredients and raw materials used to produce a variety of plant-based products are covered along with their qualitative and nutritional properties. Further chapters focus on the health effects of plant-based products and microbiological and safety issues. For researchers seeking a full, up-to-date overview of plant-based product alternatives and their production, health affects and safety aspects, this book meets your needs.
