The Blue Compendium : From Knowledge to Action for a Sustainable Ocean Economy
1. The future of food from the sea -- Chapter 2.The Expected Impacts of Climate Change on the Ocean Economy -- Chapter 3. What Role for Ocean-Based Renewable Energy and Deep-Seabed Minerals in a Sustainalble Future? -- Chapter 4. The Ocean Genome: Conservation and the Fair, Equitable and Sustainable Use of Marine Genetic Resources -- Chapter 5. Leveraging Multi-Target Strategies to Address Plastic Pollution in the Context of an Already Stressed Ocean -- Chapter 6. Technology, Data and New Models for Sustainably Managing Ocean Resources -- Chapter 7. Coastal Development: Resilience, Restoration and Infrastructure Requirements -- Chapter 8. National Accounting for the Ocean and Ocean Economy -- Chapter 9. Ocean Finance -- Chapter 10. Critical Habitats and Biodiversity: Inventory, Threshold and Governance -- Chapter 11. The Human Relationship with Our Ocean Planet -- Chapter 12. The Ocean Transition: What to Learn from System Transitions -- Chapter 13. Towards Ocean Equity -- Chapter 14. Integrated Ocean Management -- Chapter 15. Illegal, Unreported and Unregulated Fishing and Associated Drivers -- Chapter 16. Organised Crime Associated with Fisheries -- Chapter 17. The Ocean as a Solution to Climate Change: Five Opportunities for Action -- Chapter 18. A Sustainable Ocean Economy for 2050: Approximating Its Benefits and Costs -- Chapter 19. A Sustainable & Equitable Blue Recovery to the COVID-19 Crisis -- Chapter 20. Ocean Solutions That Benefit People, Nature and the Economy -- Chapter 21. Transformations for a Sustainable Ocean Economy: A Vision for Protection, Production and Prosperity.
Home to over 80 percent of all life on Earth, the ocean is the world’s largest carbon sink and a key source of food and economic security for billions of people. The relevance of the ocean for humanity's future is undisputed. However, the ocean’s great potential to drive economic growth and equitable job creation, sustain healthy ecosystems, and mitigate climate change is not yet fully recognised. Lack of awareness of this potential as well as management and governance challenges pose impediments. Until these impediments are removed, ocean ecosystems will continue to be degraded and opportunities for people lost. A transition and a clear path to a thriving and vibrant relationship between humans and the ocean are urgently needed. This open access collection of papers and reports identifies a path that is inspired by science, energised by engaged people, and emboldened by visionary leaders. These assessments of knowledge are commissioned by the High Level Panel for a Sustainable Ocean Economy (Ocean Panel), which was established in September 2018 as a unique initiative led by heads of state and government from around the world, to showcase the latest leading-edge science, knowledge and state-of-the-art thinking on key ocean issues. Altogether, The Blue Compendium offers innovative ocean solutions in technology, policy, governance, and finance realms, that could help accelerate a transition to a more sustainable and prosperous relationship with the ocean. The comprehensive assessments have already informed policy making at the highest levels of government and motivated an impressive array of responsive and ambitious action across a growing network of leaders in business, finance and civil society. .
