The Moral Authority of Nature
For thousands of years, people have used nature to justify their political, moral, and social judgments. Such appeals to the moral authority of nature are still very much with us today, as heated debates over genetically modified organisms and human cloning testify. The Moral Authority of Nature offers a wide-ranging account of how people have used nature to think about what counts as good, beautiful, just, or valuable. The eighteen essays cover a diverse array of topics, including the connection of cosmic and human orders in ancient Greece, medieval notions of sexual disorder, early modern contexts for categorizing individuals and judging acts as "against nature," race and the origin of humans, ecological economics, and radical feminism. The essays also range widely in time and place, from archaic Greece to early twentieth-century China, medieval Europe to contemporary America. Scholars from a wide variety of fields will welcome The Moral Authority of Nature, which provides the first sustained historical survey of its topic. Contributors: Danielle Allen, Joan Cadden, Lorraine Daston, Fa-ti Fan, Eckhardt Fuchs, Valentin Groebner, Abigail J. Lustig, Gregg Mitman, Michelle Murphy, Katharine Park, Matt Price, Robert N. Proctor, Helmut Puff, Robert J. Richards, Londa Schiebinger, Laura Slatkin, Julia Adeney Thomas, Fernando Vidal
Frontmatter -- Contents -- Introduction : Doing What Comes Naturally -- Introduction -- 1 : Measuring Authority, Authoritative Measures: Hesiod's Works and Days -- 2 : Nature in Person: Medieval and Renaissance Allegories and Emblems -- 3 : Burning The Fable of the Bees: The Incendiary Authority of Nature -- 4 : Attention and the Values of Nature in the Enlightenment -- 5 : The Erotic Authority of Nature: Science, Art, and the Female during Goethe's Italian Journey -- 6 : Nature and Bildung: Pedagogical Naturalism in Nineteenth-Century Germany -- 7 : Economics, Ecology, and the Value of Nature -- Introduction -- 8 : Trouble in the Earthly Paradise: The Regime of Nature in Late Medieval Christian Culture -- 9 : Nature on Trial: Acts "Against Nature" in the Law Courts of Early Modern Germany and Switzerland -- 10 : Onanism, Enlightenment Medicine, and the Immanent Justice of Nature -- 11 : Ants and the Nature of Nature in Auguste Forel, Erich Wasmann, and William Morton Wheeler -- 12 : "To Become As One Dead": Nature and the Political Subject in Modern Japan -- 13 : Liberation through Control in the Body Politics of U.S. Radical Feminism -- Introduction -- 14 : Complexio/Complexion: Categorizing Individual Natures, 1250 -1600 -- 15 : Human Experimentation in the Eighteenth Century: Natural Boundaries and Valid Testing -- 16 : Nature and Nation in Chinese Political Thought: The National Essence Circle in Early-Twentieth-Century China -- 17 : When Pollen Became Poison: A Cultural Geography of Ragweed in America -- 18 : Three Roots of Human Recency: Molecular Anthropology, the Refigured Acheulean, and the UNESCO Response to Auschwitz -- List of Contributors -- Index
