Climate change and the future of Europe : views from the capitals
Part I. Member States -- Chapter 1. Austria: Weathering the Storm and Greening the Economy? -- Chapter 2. Belgium’s Climate Policy: High Expectations, Low Performance -- Chapter 3. Between Fighting for Climate Change and Fighting for Coal: The Bulgarian Case -- Chapter 4. Croatia - Needs Versus Capacity: Mind the Gap! -- Chapter 5. Cyprus: Global Energy Crisis is an Opportunity to Tackle Climate Change -- Chapter 6. Czechia: Saving the Climate or the Czech Industry? -- Chapter 7. Denmark: Climate as a Given -- Chapter 8. Has Estonia Already Lost the Path to Achieving Its Climate Goals? -- Chapter 9. Finland’s Fight Against Climate Change: Ambitious Yet Pragmatic Approach -- Chapter 10. France: Not Living Up to Its Ambition -- Chapter 11. The Fight Against Climate Change in Germany – From Energiewende to Zeitenwende? -- Chapter 12. Greece’s New Energy and Climate Strategy. A Story of Hope? -- Chapter 13. Hard Pressed by External Actors: Sustainability Transition in Hungary -- Chapter 14. ‘Now, We Need Action’ – Ireland’s Fight Against Climate Change -- Chapter 15. Vulnerable and Unprepared: Assessing Italy’s Path to Fight Climate Change -- Chapter 16. Nature Friendly Latvia Against Its Unnatural Climate Change Problem -- Chapter 17. Climate Change Policies in Lithuania: as Usual, Words Speak Louder Than Actions -- Chapter 18. No Decarbonisation Without Taxation in Luxembourg -- Chapter 19. Malta and Climate Change – Balancing Opportunities with Limitations -- Chapter 20. Concerned but Not Fully Dedicated – the Polish Perspective on Climate Change -- Chapter 21. Portugal Facing Climate Change: Deep Problems, Sluggish Responses, but Hopeful Prospects -- Chapter 22. Romania’s Fight Against Climate Change. Contributing to Ambitious European Targets While Facing Deep-rooted Sectoral Flaws -- Chapter 23. Climate Change: A Second-class Agenda in Slovakia? -- Chapter 24. Slovenia: Big on Plans, Small on Deeds? -- Chapter 25. Solving the Spanish Climate Conundrum While Contributing to the Eu’s Decarbonisation Compass -- Chapter 26. Sweden: Much Progress – but More is Needed! -- Chapter 27. Ambitious Dreams Versus Harsh Reality – Can the Netherlands Really Become a Frontrunner in Climate Action? -- Part II. EU Neighbours -- Chapter 28. Albania’s Challenges and Risks on Climate Neutrality! -- Chapter 29. Mission (Im)possible – How to Fight Against Climate Change in a Country Enduring Permanent Crises: The Case of Bosnia and Herzegovina -- Chapter 30. Georgia: It is Time to Address the Devastating Effects of Climate Change -- Chapter 31. Icelandic Climate Politics: Ways Forward to a Green and Socially Inclusive Welfare State? -- Chapter 32. Liechtenstein: Small State, Little Responsibility? -- Chapter 33. Climate Change - a Powerful Engine for Economic Transformation in Montenegro -- Chapter 34. North Macedonia: Pause on the ‘green Agenda’ During Crisis -- Chapter 35. Norway’s Climate Policy – Don’t Think of the Elephant! -- Chapter 36. Switzerland’s Climate Policy: Caught Between Eu-compatible Goals and Referendum Constraints -- Chapter 37. Türkiye: a Climate Financing Opportunist? -- Chapter 38. United Kingdom: Brexit, Climate Change and the Conservative Party -- Chapter 39. Ukraine: Revisit Climate Goals After the War to Increase Ambition.
While the ambitious objectives outlined in the EU’s Green Deal aim at making Europe the first climate-neutral continent by 2050, national implementation greatly varies depending on local geographies, history, culture, economics, and politics. This book analyses Member States’ and EU neighbours’ national efforts to combat climate change. It subsequently draws on these factors to highlight local challenges, tensions, and opportunities on the road towards climate neutrality. In the context of inter-country dependencies following Russia’s war against Ukraine, it addresses strategic questions regarding EU integration, the transformation of our economies, the reduction of energy dependencies, and public perception of the above. The book also makes concrete recommendations, in various policy areas, on how individual countries and the EU as a whole should deal with the climate crisis. The Editors Dr. Michael Kaeding holds a Jean Monnet Chair for European Integration and European Union Politics at the Institute of Political Science, University of Duisburg-Essen, Germany. He is a visiting fellow of the European Institute of Public Administration in Maastricht and member of the flying faculties of the College of Europe, Bruges, and the Turkish-German University in Istanbul. From 2016 to 2019 he was the chairman of the Trans European Policy Studies Association. Dr. Johannes Pollak is a Professor of International Relations and rector of Webster Vienna Private University, Austria. Prior to this position, he headed the Department of Political Science at the Institute for Advanced Studies in Vienna. In summer 2019, he was elected Chairperson of the Board of the Institute of European Politics in Berlin. Paul Schmidt is the Secretary General of the Austrian Society for European Politics, which promotes and supports the analysis of and communication on European affairs. Prior to that he has worked at the Oesterreichische Nationalbank, both in Vienna and at its office in Brussels at the Permanent Representation of Austria to the European Union.
