Curtain up : City diplomacy in global migration governance
Curtains up explores city diplomacy in global migration governance. The author lays out the paradox that cities, although increasingly de facto migration actors in an urbanizing world, lack channels to influence international policies that directly impact local realities. Drawing on ten case studies from around the world, the author shows that local governments strive to overcome this paradox through global-level interaction with national and international actors contributing to the emergence of a role of cities in global migration governance. Cities draw on this role to influence migration narratives, place local issues on global agendas and demand a seat at decision-making tables. Advancing the analysis of cities as global-level actors, the author introduces role theory to migration studies and presents a series of timely policy recommendations. These set out concrete steps towards a stronger institutionalization of city diplomacy in global migration governance. This book is written for scholars of migration studies, urban studies, and international relations as well as for practitioners focusing on multi-level migration governance, city diplomacy and multi-stakeholder partnerships. About the Author Janina Stürner-Siovitz is a postdoctoral researcher at the Institute of Political Science of the Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg, Germany. Interested in migration governance in Africa, Europe, and at the global level, she conducts research on new governance actors, multi-stakeholder partnerships, and the interplay between global, national, and local policy-making.
City actors in global migration governance – A research puzzle -- Seeking the dialogue between migration, IR, and urban studies -- All the world’s a stage – A role theory research design -- Curtains up – A new role for cities -- Clear the stage – City diplomacy in global migration governance -- Break a leg – Constraints, risks, and recommendations -- The show must go on – Conclusions and outlook.
