Practical guideline for the application of microtunnelling methods : for the ecological, cost-minimised installation of drains and sewers
*Stein, Dietrich: Hochschulprofessor, 03.11.1938-. Brauer, Ansgar: Bauingenieur, 18.09.1972-. Weitere Angaben Verfasser: Born on 3 November 1938 in Ströbitz/Cottbus and after graduating from the University for Civil Engineering in 1962, University-Prof. Dr.-Ing. D. Stein gathered practical and scientific experience in dam- and storage construction in Dresden, Gersdorf and Berlin. From 1975 to 1977 he gathered university-educational experience at the University for Engineering in Cottbus on the sector of "pre-fabrication and technikum". In 1970 he was awarded a doctorate externally at the University for Transportation "Friedrich List" in Dresden. In 1979, after emigrating to the Federal Republic of Germany, he found another working sphere at the Ruhr-University Bochum, where he was promoted as a professor on the sector of construction method technique in 1981; and in 1991 he was appointed to a professorship for the new teaching sector "pipeline construction, rehabilitation and maintenance", which had been founded by him. The research works supervised by him and the international expert's opinions created as a sworn technical expert deal with the planning, operation, maintenance and rehabilitation of all urban supply and disposal networks in the broadest sense. Since having been given his emeritus status in spring 2004, Prof. Stein now applies himself intensively to his engineering consultant office Prof. Dr.-Ing. Stein & Partner GmbH (www.stein.de), which was founded in 1993. The Prof. Dr.-Ing. Stein & Partner GmbH - in short S&P or Stein & Partner - is an innovation-orientated enterprise. Situated near the Ruhr-University Bochum (Germany), it operates successfully on the sectors of pipeline construction, pipeline maintenance and rehabilitation as well as environmental technology. Among S&P's fields of activity are: engineering (e.g. planning, structural calculation, operation and maintenance concepts, expert reports and consulting), research and development, new media (www.unitracc.de) as well as training and education. More than 150 publications, articles and especially the standard manual "Maintenance and Rehabilitation of Drains and Sewers", which has been published in its third edition, as well as the technical books "The Accessible Utility Tunnel" and "Trenchless Technology for Installation of Cables and Pipelines" prove his international scientific commitment
