The integrative design guide to green building : redefining the practice of sustainability
6. Schematic design : Entering part B: Design and construction -- Here's where we are -- Stop and reflect : What's working? ; What's not working? ; How can we do (and think about) this differently? -- Part B. Design and construction : Stage B1. Workshop no.3: Schematic design kickoff: bringing it all together (without committing to building form ; Stage B2. Research and analysis: Schematic design: Bringing it all together (and now committing to building form) -- 7. Design development and documentation : Here's where we are -- Stop and reflect : What's working? ; What's not working? ; How can we do (and think about) this differently? ; Stage B.3. Workshop no.4: Design development kickoff: it is brought together: does it work? ; Stage B4. Research and analysis: Design development: optimization ; Stage B5. Workshop no.5: Construction documents kickoff: performance verification and quality control ; Stage B6. Construction documents: no more designing -- 8. Construction, operations, and feedback : The evolving commissioning process -- Learning from feedback -- Here's where we are -- Stop and reflect : What's working? ; What's not working? ; How can we do (and think about) this differently? ; Stage B7. Bidding and construction: aligning with the builder: becoming a team -- Part C. Occupancy, operations, and performance feedback : Stage C1. Occupancy: feedback from all systems -- Epilogue : Evolving the field : A transformational process -- Shifting the paradigm -- The fifth system
1. Many minds : From master builder to the twenty-first century: where we are and how we got here : The master builder ; The Siena Duomo -- The age of specialization -- Stop and reflect: our current process : Siloed optimization ; The abyss between design and construction professionals ; Doing less damage by adding technologies -- The call before us -- 2. Building as an organism : A shift in thinking: no part or system in isolation -- Buildings as organisms : Tunneling through the cost barrier ; Lessons learned from high-performance windows -- Project teams as organism : Fostering an interdisciplinary process: "a deer in the headlights" ; A team of colearners and the learning wheel ; The composite master builder -- 3. Reframing sustainability : What is sustainability? -- The trajectory of sustainability in practice : The technical story of Willow School ; A more compelling and vital story of place ; Re-membering our role in nature ; Reciprocal relationships within the larger system -- The role of the mental model: from products to a new mind-set -- Nested subsystems -- Solving for pattern -- 4. Aligning values, purpose, and process : Introduction to the discovery phase -- The four Es -- Questioning assumptions -- Creating alignment : Aligning the team ; Aligning with the client -- Fostering an iterative process -- Integrating intentions with purpose : The four key subsystems ; Aligning dollars and resources ; The "touchstone" exercise ; Aligning with values ; Redefining success -- 5. The discovery phase : This is not a cookbook -- Here's where we are -- Stop and reflect : What's working? ; What's not working? ; How can we do (and think about) this differently? -- Integrative process overview -- Three-part structure : Part A. Discovery ; Part B. Design and construction ; Part C. Occupancy, operations, and performance feedback -- Part A. Discovery : Stage A1. Research and analysis: preparation ; Stage A2. Workshop no.1: Alignment of purpose and goal-setting ; Stage A3. Research and analysis: evaluating possible strategies ; Stage A4. Workshop no.2: Conceptual design exploration ; Stage A5. Research and analysis: Testing conceptual design ideas --
