Handbook of numerical heat transfer
Survey of numerical methods / J. Y. Murthy, W. J. Minkowycz, E. M. Sparrow, and S. R. Matur -- Finite-difference method / Richard H. Pletcher -- Finite-element method / Juan C. Heinrich -- Boundary-element method / A.J. Kassab, L. C. Wrobel, R. A. Bialecki, and E. A. Divo  -- Large eddy simulation of heat and mass transport in turbulent flows / Cyrus K. Madnia, Farhad A. Jaberi, and Peyman Givi -- Control-volume-based finite-difference and finite-element methods / B.R. Baliga and N. Atabaki -- Meshless methods / D.W. Pepper -- Monte Carlo methods / A. Haji-Sheikh and J. R. Howell  -- Discrete-ordinates and finite-volume methods for radiative heat transfer / J.C. Chai and S. V. Patankar -- Pressure-based algorithms for single-fluid and multifluid flows / F. Moulkalled and M. Darwish -- Numerical modeling of heat transfer in wall-adjacent turbulent flows / T.J. Craft, S. E. Gant, A. V. Gerasimov, H. Iacovides, and B. E. Launder  -- A critical synthesis of pertinent models for turbulent transport through porous media / K. Vafai, A. Bejan, W. J. Minkowycz, and K. Khanafer -- Verification and validation of computational heat transfer / Dominique Pelletier and Patrick J. Roache -- Sensitivity analysis and uncertainty propagation of computational models / B.F. Blackwell and K. J. Dowding -- Computational geometry, grid generation, and adaptive grids / Graham F. Carey -- Hybrid methods and symbolic computations / Renato M. Cotta and Mikhail D. Mikhailov -- Inverse problems in heat transfer / Nicholas Zabaras -- Moving-boundary problems / Wei Shyy -- Numerical methods for phase-change problems / V.R. Voller -- Computational techniques for microscale heat transfer / Da Yu "Robert" Tzou -- Molecular dynamics method for micro/nano systems / Shigeo Maruyama -- Euleria-Lagrangian simulations of particle/droplet-laden turbulent flows / F. Mashayek and W. J. Minkowycz -- Numerical modeling of manufacturing processes / Yogesh Jaluria -- Computational methods in materials processing / R. Pitchumani -- Thermal modeling of technology infrastructure facilities: a case study of data centers / J. Rambo and Y. Joshi -- Numerical bioheat transfer / B. Rubinsky -- High-performance computing for fluid flow and heat transfer / D.W. Pepper and J. M. Lombardo  -- Overview of numerical methods and recommendations / S.R. Mathur, W. J. Minkowycz, E. M. Sparrow, and J. Y. Murthy
"A completely updated edition of the acclaimed single-volume reference for heat transfer and the thermal sciences This Second Edition of Handbook of Numerical Heat Transfer covers the basic equations for numerical method calculations regarding heat transfer problems and applies these to problems encountered in aerospace, nuclear power, chemical processes, electronic packaging, and other related areas of mechanical engineering. As with the first edition, this complete revision presents comprehensive but accessible coverage of the necessary formulations, numerical schemes, and innovative solution techniques for solving problems of heat and mass transfer and related fluid flows. Featuring contributions from some of the most prominent authorities in the field, articles are grouped by major sets of methods and functions, with the text describing new and improved, as well as standard, procedures. Handbook of Numerical Heat Transfer, Second Edition includes: * Updated coverage of parabolic systems, hyperbolic systems, integral-and integro-differential systems, Monte Carlo and perturbation methods, and inverse problems * Usable computer programs that allow quick applications to aerospace, chemical, nuclear, and electronic packaging industries * User-friendly nomenclature listings include all the symbols used in each chapter so that chapter-specific symbols are readily available."--Publisher's website
