Resistance of concrete to chloride ingress : testing and modelling
"Chloride ingress in reinforced concrete induces corrosion and consequent spalling and structural weakness, and it occurs world-wide and imposes an enormous cost. Yet it can be resisted by using test methods and relevant models for service life prediction. Resistance of Concrete to Chloride Ingress sets out current understanding of chloride transport mechanisms, test methods and prediction models. It describes basic mechanisms and theories, and classifies the commonly used parameters and their units which expressing chloride and its transport properties in concrete. Laboratory test methods and in-field applicable test methods, including precision results from inter-laboratory comparison tests, are then outlined. Some of the fundamentals of models are explained, and the different types of models are then analyzed theoretically and critically. Analytical and probabilistic approaches are used to analyze the sensitivity of various models and the results from a benchmarking evaluation of different models are presented and discussed. Guidelines for the practical use of test methods and models are given, including tests for in-situ applications, and test methods validated by the precision results are detailed. The book draws to a large extent on the Chlortest project, which involved seventeen partners from ten European countries, and serves as an authoritative guide"--
"Chloride ingress in reinforced concrete is a major problem, inducing corrosion and consequent spalling and structural weakness, it occurs world-wide and imposes an enormous costs. In order to guarantee the quality of expensive concrete structures and maintain them properly to achieve their designed service life, test methods and relevant models for service life prediction are required. Setting out current understanding of chloride transport mechanisms, test methods and prediction models, Resistance of Concrete to Chloride Ingress: - Describes basic mechanisms and theories - Classifies the commonly used parameters and units which express chloride and its transport properties - Outlines laboratory test methods and in-field test methods including precision results from inter-laboratory comparison tests - Explains some of the fundamentals of models - Analyses the different types of models theoretically and critically - Uses analytical and probabilistic approaches are used to analyse the sensitivity of various models - Presents and discusses the results from a benchmarking evaluation of different models - Gives guidelines for the practical use of test methods and models, including tests for in-situ applications, and test methods validated by the precision results are detailed in an Appendix. Providing practising engineers, designers, researchers, advanced students and other professionals with a useful reference for analysis and design of concrete structures exposed to chloride environments, the book draws on the Chlortest project, which involved seventeen partners from ten European countries, and will serve as an authoritative guide for some time to come"--
