Maillard reaction : Chemistry, biochemistry and implications
This product is not available separately, it is only sold as part of a set. There are 750 products in the set and these are all sold as one entity, Research in the field of the Maillard reaction has developed rapidly in recent years as a result of not only the application of improved analytical techniques, but also of the realisation that the Maillard reaction plays an important role in some human diseases and in the ageing process. The Maillard Reaction: Chemistry, Biochemistry, and Implications provides a comprehensive treatise on the Maillard reaction. This single-author volume covers all aspects of the Maillard reaction in a uniform, co-ordinated, and up-to-date manner. The book encompasses: the chemistry of non-enzymic browning; recent advances; colour formation in non-enzymic browning; flavour and off-flavour formation in non-enzymic browning; toxicological aspects; nutritional aspects; other physiological aspects; other consequences of technological significance; implications for other fields; non-enzymic browning due mainly to ascorbic acid; caramelisation; inhibition of non-enzymic browning in foods; and inhibition of the Maillard reaction in vivo.  The Maillard Reaction: Chemistry, Biochemistry, and Implications will be welcomed as an important publication for both new and experienced researchers who are involved in solving the mysteries and complexities of Maillard chemistry and biochemistry. It will also appeal to students, university lecturers, and researchers in a variety of fields, including food science, nutrition, biochemistry, medicine, pharmacology, toxicology, and soil science
Research in the field of the Maillard reaction has developed rapidly in recent years as a result of not only the application of improved analytical techniques, but also of the realisation that the Maillard reaction plays an important role in some human diseases and in the ageing process. The Maillard Reaction: Chemistry, Biochemistry, and Implications provides a comprehensive treatise on the Maillard reaction. This single-author volume covers all aspects of the Maillard reaction in a uniform, co-ordinated, and up-to-date manner. The book encompasses: the chemistry of non-enzymic browning; recent advances; colour formation in non-enzymic browning; flavour and off-flavour formation in non-enzymic browning; toxicological aspects; nutritional aspects; other physiological aspects; other consequences of technological significance; implications for other fields; non-enzymic browning due mainly to ascorbic acid; caramelisation; inhibition of non-enzymic browning in foods; and inhibition of the Maillard reaction in vivo. The Maillard Reaction: Chemistry, Biochemistry, and Implications will be welcomed as an important publication for both new and experienced researchers who are involved in solving the mysteries and complexities of Maillard chemistry and biochemistry. It will also appeal to students, university lecturers, and researchers in a variety of fields, including food science, nutrition, biochemistry, medicine, pharmacology, toxicology, and soil science
