Image registration for remote sensing
"Image registration is a digital processing discipline that studies how to bring two or more digital images into precise alignment for analysis and comparison. Accurate registration algorithms are essential in supporting Earth and planetary scientists as they mosaic remote sensing satellite images and track changes of the planet's surface over time for environmental, political and basic science studies. The book brings together invited contributions by 36 distinguished researchers in the field to present a coherent and detailed overview of current research and practice in the application of image registration to satellite imagery. The chapters cover the problem definition, theoretical issues in accuracy and efficiency, fundamental algorithms used in its solution, and real world case studies of image registration software applied to imagery from operational satellite systems. This book is an essential reference for Earth and space scientists who need a comprehensive and practical overview on how to obtain optimal georegistration of their data, an indispensable source for image processing researchers interested in current research, and the ideal text for teaching a special topic university graduate course"--
Machine generated contents note: Foreword Jon A. Benediktsson; Part I. The Importance of Image Registration for Remote Sensing: 1. Introduction Jacqueline Le Moigne, Nathan S. Netanyahu and Roger D. Eastman; 2. Influence of image registration on validation efforts Bin Tan and Curtis E. Woodcock; 3. Survey of image registration methods Roger D. Eastman, Nathan S. Netanyahu and Jacqueline Le Moigne; Part II. Similarity Metrics for Image Registration: 4. Fast correlation and phase correlation Harold S. Stone; 5. Matched filtering techniques Qin-Sheng Chen; 6. Image registration using mutual information Arlene A. Cole-Rhodes and Pramod K. Varshney; Part III. Feature Matching and Strategies for Image Registration: 7. Registration of multiview images A. Ardeshir Goshtasby; 8. New approaches to robust, point-based image registration David M. Mount, Nathan S. Netanyahu and San Ratanasanya; 9. Condition theory for image registration and post-registration error estimation Charles S. Kenney, B. S. Manjunath, Marco Zuliani and Kaushal Solanki; 10. Feature-based image to image registration Venu M. Govindu and Rama Chellappa; 11. On the use of wavelets for image registration Jacqueline Le Moigne, Ilya Zavorin and Harold S. Stone; 12. Gradient descent approaches to image registration Arlene A. Cole-Rhodes and Roger D. Eastman; 13. Bounding the performance of image registration Min Xu and Parmod K. Varshney; Part IV. Applications and Operational Systems: 14. Multi-temporal and multi-sensor image registration Jacqueline Le Moigne, Arlene A. Cole-Rhodes, Roger D. Eastman, Nathan S. Netanyahu, Harold S. Stone, Ilya Zavorin and Jeffrey T. Morisette; 15. Georegistration of meteorological images James L. Carr; 16. Challenges, solutions, and applications of accurate multi-angle image registration: lessons learned from MISR Veljko M. Jovanovic, David J. Diner and Roger Davies; 17. Automated AVHRR image navigation William J. Emery, R. Ian Crocker and Daniel G. Baldwin; 18. Landsat image geocorrection and registration James C. Storey; 19. Automatic and precise orthorectification of SPOT images Simon Baillarin, Aure;lie Bouillon and Marc Bernard; 20. Geometry of the VEGETATION sensor Sylvia Sylvander; 21. Accurate MODIS global geolocation through automated ground control image matching Robert E. Wolfe and Masahiro Nishihama; 22. SeaWIFS operational geolocation assessment system Frederick S. Patt; Part V. Conclusion: 23. Concluding remarks Jacqueline Le Moigne, Nathan S. Netanyahu and Roger D. Eastman; Glossary; Index
