Advanced separation techniques for nuclear fuel reprocessing and radioactive waste treatment
Chemistry of radioactive materials in the nuclear fuel cycle / K.L. Nash and J.C. Braley, Washington Sate University -- Physical and chemical properties of actinides in nuclear fuel reprocessing / A. Paulenova, Oregon State University -- Chemical engineering for advanced aqueous radioactive material separations / S. Arm and C. Phillips, EnergySolutions, LLC -- Spectroscopic on-line monitoring for process control and safeguarding of radiochemical streams in nuclear fuel reprocessing facilities / S.A. Bryan, T.G. Levitskaia, A.J. Casella, J.M. Peterson, A.M. Johnsen, A.M. Lines, and E.M. Thomas, Pacific Northwest National Laboratory -- Safeguards technology for radioactive materials processing and nuclear fuel reprocessing facilities / K.M. Goff, G.L. Frederickson and D.E. Vaden, Idaho National Laboratory -- Standard and advanced separation: PUREX processes for nuclear fuel reprocessing / R.S. Herbst, Idaho National Laboratory, P. Baron, CEA, France and M. Nilsson, University of California Irvine -- Alternative separation and extraction: UREX+ processes for actinide and targeted fission product recovery / M.C. Regalbuto, Argonne National Laboratory -- Advanced reprocessing for fission product separation and extraction / E.D. Collins, G.D. Del Cul, and B.A. Moyer, Oak Ridge National Laboratory -- Combined processes for high level radioactive waste separations: UNEX and other extraction processes / V.N. Romanovsky, I.V. Smirnov, V.A. Baabain and A. Yu Shadrin, Khlopin Radium Institute, Russia -- Nuclear engineering for pyrochemical treatment of spent nuclear fuels / T. Koyama, Central Research Institute of Electric Power Industry, Japan -- Development of highly selective compounds for solvent extraction processes: partitioning and transmutations of long-lived radionuclides from spent nuclear fuels / C. Hill, CEA, France -- Developments in the partitioning and transmutation of radioactive waste / D.M. Warin, CEA/Marcoule, France -- Solid-phase extraction technology for actinide and lanthanide separations in nuclear fuel reprocessing / T.J. Tranter, Idaho National Laboratory -- Emerging separation techniques: supercritical fluid and ionic liquid extraction techniques for nuclear fuel reprocessing and radioactive waste treatment / C.M. Wai, University of Idaho -- Development of biological treatment processes for the separation and recovery of radioactive wastes / E.M.N. Chirwa, University of Pretoria, South Africa
Advanced separations technology is key to closing the nuclear fuel cycle and relieving future generations from the burden of radioactive waste produced by the nuclear power industry. Nuclear fuel reprocessing techniques not only allow for recycling of useful fuel components for further power generation, but by also separating out the actinides, lanthanides and other fission products produced by the nuclear reaction, the residual radioactive waste can be minimized. Indeed, the future of the industry relies on the advancement of separation and transmutation technology to ensure environmental protection, criticality-safety and non-proliferation (i.e., security) of radioactive materials by reducing their long-term radiological hazard. Advanced separation techniques for nuclear fuel reprocessing and radioactive waste treatment provides a reference on nuclear fuel reprocessing and radioactive waste treatment. Part one covers the fundamental chemistry, engineering and safety of radioactive materials separations processes in the nuclear fuel cycle, including coverage of advanced aqueous separations engineering, as well as on-line monitoring for process control and safeguards technology. While part two reviews the development and application of separation and extraction processes for nuclear fuel reprocessing and radioactive waste treatment. The section includes discussions of advanced PUREX processes, the UREX+ concept, fission product separations, and combined systems for simultaneous radionuclide extraction. Part three details emerging and innovative treatment techniques, initially reviewing pyrochemical processes and engineering, highly selective compounds for solvent extraction, and developments in partitioning and transmutation processes that aim to close the nuclear fuel cycle. The book concludes with other advanced techniques such as solid phase extraction, supercritical fluid and ionic liquid extraction, and biological treatment processes
