Reservoir engineering handbook
This book provides solid information and insight for engineers and students alike on maximizing production from a field in order to obtain the best possible economic return. This guide contains information on predicting oil reservoir performance through the analysis of oil recovery mechanisms and performance calculations. It also contains valuable information on key relationships among the different operating variables. The examples contained within this reference demonstrate the performance of processes under forceful conditions through a wide variety of applications. Includes new chapters on decline and type curve analysis as well as reservoir simulation and updated material including the liquid volatility parameter, commonly designated Rv. Provides a guide to predicting oil reservoir performance through the analysis of oil recovery mechanisms and performance calculation
nbsp,Reorganized for easy use, Reservoir Engineering Handbook, Fourth Editionprovides an up-to-date reference to the tools, techniques, and science for predicting oil reservoir performance even in the most difficult fields.Topics covered in the handbook include:Processes to enhance productionWell modification to maximize oil and gas recoveryCompletion and evaluation of wells, well testing, and well surveysReservoir Engineering Handbook, Fourth Editionprovides solid information and insight for engineers and students alike on maximizing production from a field in order to obtain the best possible economic return. With this handbook, professionals will find a valuable reference for understanding the key relationships among the different operating variables. Examples contained in this reference demonstrate the performance of processes under forceful conditions through a wide variety of applications. . Fundamental for the advancement of reservoir engineering concepts. Step-by-step field performance calculations. Easy to understand analysis of oil recovery mechanisms. Step-by-step analysis of oil recovery mechanisms. New chapter on fractured reservoirs
