New directions in international advertising research
This book addresses the need to move international advertising in new directions by summarizing existing knowledge in several areas, reporting findings of new studies, and providing future research directions. It is aimed both at scholars who have an interest in international advertising research as well as international advertising practitioners
Introduction: new directions in international advertising research / Charles R. Taylor -- Achieving reliable and valid cross-cultural research results in content analysis / Gordon E. Miracle, Hae-Kyong Bang -- Towards the development of a scalar equivalent etic / Michael T. Ewing, Albert Caruana, Andy Teo -- Standardized vs. specialized international advertising campaigns: what we have learned from a academic research in the 1990s / Charles R. Taylor, Chad M. Johnson -- The association between process and program advertising standardization: an illustration of U.S. multinationals operating in India / Aruna Chandra, David A. Griffith, John K. Ryans -- Marketing/advertising concepts and principles in the international context: universal or unique? / Sak Onkvisit, John J. Shaw -- Creating a positive brand image with a local adaptation advertising strategy: the Hyundai Santa Fe / Mary Anne Raymond, Jong Won Lim -- Emotional and rational advertising messages in positive and negative Polish media contexts / Patrick De Pelsmacker, Dominika Maison, Maggie Geuens -- Advertising in the Czech Republic: Czech perceptions of effective advertising and advertising clutter / Charles R. Taylor, P. Greg Bonner, Michael Dolezal -- A cross-cultural examination of the environmental information on packaging: implications for advertisers / Michael Jay Polonsky, Les Carlson, Andrea Prothero, Dimitri Kapelianis -- Advertising, technology, and the digital divide: a global perspective / Ronald Paul Hill, Kanwalroop Kathy Dhanda -- Direct and indirect use of country of origin cues for hybrid and non-hybrid products / TaiWoong Yun, Wei-Na Lee, Trina Sego -- Possession and effects of power in advertising agency-client relationships in South Korea: a multi-level analysis / Changho Oh, Stephen Keysuk Kim -- Self-esteem, life-satisfaction and materialism: effects of advertising images on Chinese college students / Shuhua Zhou, Fei Xue, Peiqin Zhou -- Advertising communication in Australia: a comparison of information used by Australian, Japanese and U.S. firms / Cameron James Hughes, Michael Jay Polonsky. - This book addresses the need to move international advertising in new directions by summarizing existing knowledge in several areas, reporting findings of new studies, and providing future research directions. It is aimed both at scholars who have an interest in international advertising research as well as international advertising practitioners
