Wind energy handbook
As environmental concerns have focused attention on the generation of electricity from clean and renewable sources wind energy has become the world's fastest growing energy source. The Wind Energy Handbook draws on the authors' collective industrial and academic experience to highlight the interdisciplinary nature of wind energy research and provide a comprehensive treatment of wind energy for electricity generation.  Features include:  * An authoritative overview of wind turbine technology and wind farm design and development  * In-depth examination of the aerodynamics and performance of land-based horizontal axis wind turbines  * A survey of alternative machine architectures and an introduction to the design of the key components  * Description of the wind resource in terms of wind speed frequency distribution and the structure of turbulence  * Coverage of site wind speed prediction techniques  * Discussions of wind farm siting constraints and the assessment of environmental impact  * The integration of wind farms into the electrical power system, including power quality and system stability  * Functions of wind turbine controllers and design and analysis techniques  With coverage ranging from practical concerns about component design to the economic importance of sustainable power sources, the Wind Energy Handbook will be an asset to engineers, turbine designers, wind energy consultants and graduate engineering students
"The text also reviews the development of wind energy projects with particular emphasis on environmental impact, and considers how wind turbines interact with the electrical power system"--
"Fully revised and updated, now covering offshore wind turbines, this is a comprehensive description of the mechanical, electrical, aerodynamic, meteorological and planning aspects of modern wind turbines. Fully revised and updated, this second edition addresses key developments in the wind technology since the first edition, now the leading reference on the subject, was published in 2001. A completely new chapter focuses on offshore wind turbines and wind farms. After a brief introduction, the authors discuss the wind resource. Particular reference is made to wind turbulence due to its importance in wind turbine design. A discussion on the basis of the aerodynamics of horizontal axis wind turbines follows, incorporating general momentum theory and dynamic stall, and an analysis of their performance. The book goes on to assess the requirements for establishing design loads, updating national and international standards and revising dynamic analysis codes where necessary. Burton et al. also set out the various design options for horizontal axis wind turbines, discussing variable speed operation and reviewing alternative blade materials and their properties. They explain the functions of the wind turbine controller and describe some of the possible analysis techniques. The text also reviews the development of wind energy projects with particular emphasis on environmental impact, and considers how wind turbines interact with the electrical power system. The 1st edition is the leading reference for wind energy researchers and practitioners worldwide. This edition has 25% new material, including a new chapter covering offshore wind turbines and wind farms. Revises the chapter on the aerodynamics of horizontal axis wind turbines to include new sections on general momentum theory, lifting line theory and dynamic stall. Comprehensively covers advances in wind turbine technology, featuring updated chapters on wind resource, design and design loads, and reviews wind farms and the development of wind energy projects. Provides data on Standards and National Targets on a companion website."--
