The governance of relations in markets and organizations
Theoretical and empirical perspectives on the governance of relations in markets and organizations / Vincent Buskens, Werner Raub, Chris Snijders -- Embedded partner selection in relations between firms / Vincent Buskens, Ronald S. Batenburg, Jeroen Weesie -- Contacts and contracts : dyadic embeddedness and the contractual behavior of firms / Ronald S. Batenburg, Werner Raub, Chris Snijders -- Governing strategic alliances / Toby E. Stuart -- Size of the pie and share of the pie : implications of network embeddedness and business relatedness for value creation and value appropriation in joint ventures / Ranjay Gulati, Lihua Olivia Wang -- The rational choice approach to an analysis of intra- and interorganizational governance / Thomas Voss -- Network endorsement and social stratification in the legal profession / Harris H. Kim, Edward O. Laumann -- Interlocking judges : on joint exogenous and self-governance of markets / Emmanuel Lazega, Lise Mounier -- Keeping a job : network hiring and turnover in a retail bank / Kathryn M. Neckerman, Roberto M. Fernandez -- The within-job gender wage gap, Sweden 1970-1990 / Trond Petersen, Eva M. Meyersson Milgrom, Vemund Snartland -- Frame decay, informal power, and the escalation of social control in a management team : a relational signaling perspective / Rafael Wittek, Marijtje A.J. van Duijn, Tom A.B. Snijders -- The cognitive side of governance / Siegwart Lindenberg -- Quality, exchange, and Knightian uncertainty / Joel M. Podolny, Greta Hsu. - Transactions often differ on important dimensions from spot exchanges on perfect neo-classical markets. Information is seldom complete and instantaneous exchange is just as rare as full competition. The authors in this volume extend the standard economic model stressing the proposition that the social context is an important determinant of the governance of transactions. To foster the development of a body of cumulative knowledge in the new economic sociology, this approach is consistently applied to a diversity of topics including purchase relations, strategic alliances, and relations among lawyers and clients as well as employers and employees. This volume is divided in three parts. The first part surveys purposive behaviour models in research on governance as well as theoretical work extending these models. The contributions in the second and third part all have an empirical component and deal with governance in the various phases of exchange relations: search and selection, negotiating and contracting, contract execution and performance, and conflict regulation. The second part focuses on governance in markets, while the third part discusses governance in organizations
Transactions often differ on important dimensions from spot exchanges on perfect neo-classical markets. Information is seldom complete and instantaneous exchange is just as rare as full competition. The authors in this volume extend the standard economic model stressing the proposition that the social context is an important determinant of the governance of transactions. To foster the development of a body of cumulative knowledge in the new economic sociology, this approach is consistently applied to a diversity of topics including purchase relations, strategic alliances, and relations among lawyers and clients as well as employers and employees. This volume is divided in three parts. The first part surveys purposive behaviour models in research on governance as well as theoretical work extending these models. The contributions in the second and third part all have an empirical component and deal with governance in the various phases of exchange relations: search and selection, negotiating and contracting, contract execution and performance, and conflict regulation. The second part focuses on governance in markets, while the third part discusses governance in organizations
