Social structure and organizations revisited
Passion with an umbrella : grassroots activists in the workplace / Maureen Scully, Amy Segal -- A political approach to organizations and institutions / Robin Stryker -- Unpacking the liability of aging : toward a socially-embedded account of organizational disbanding / Martin Ruef -- Coming from good stock : career histories and new venture formation / M. Diane Burton, Jesper B. S(p)ørensen, Christine M. Beckman -- The social structure of new venture funding : stratification and the differential liability of newness / Michael Alan Sacks -- Poststructuralism in organizational studies / Ronald L. Breiger -- Social structure and organizations revisited / Michael Lounsbury, Marc J. Ventresca -- Organizing identity : the creation of science for the people / Kelly Moore, Nicole Hala -- The organizational vitality of conservative protestantism / Mitchell L. Stevens -- Crisis, collective creativity, and the generation of new organizational forms : the transformation of lesbian/gay organizations in San Francisco / Elizabeth A. Armstrong -- Organizational heterogeneity and the production of new forms : politics, social movements and mutual companies in American fire insurance, 1900-1930 / Marc Schneiberg -- Invention, innovation, proliferation : explaining organizational genesis and change / Elisabeth S. Clemens -- New sociological microfoundations for organizational theory : a postscript / Arthur L. Stinchcombe -- Revolutionary change and organizational form : the politics of investment fund organization in Russia, 1992-1997 / Andrew Spicer. - This work brings together empirical research and thematic commentaries which chart out research directions for politically-inflected studies of organizational and institutional change. The chapters give practical voice to the theoretical questions and research designs of an emerging agenda for organization theory that engages questions about broader social structure and organizations with theory in cultural analysis, stratification, and entrepreneurship. Cases include historical studies of the evolution of the fire insurance industry in the 19th century, studies of the organizational vitality of contemporary evangelical Protestantism, the emergence of gay and lesbian identity organizations, challenges in the institutional structuring of the mutual fund industry the post-Soviet Russia, stratification and status organizing processes in entrepreneurial organizations, studies of social movements and organizations, both external to and inside of organizations
This work brings together empirical research and thematic commentaries which chart out research directions for politically-inflected studies of organizational and institutional change. The chapters give practical voice to the theoretical questions and research designs of an emerging agenda for organization theory that engages questions about broader social structure and organizations with theory in cultural analysis, stratification, and entrepreneurship. Cases include historical studies of the evolution of the fire insurance industry in the 19th century, studies of the organizational vitality of contemporary evangelical Protestantism, the emergence of gay and lesbian identity organizations, challenges in the institutional structuring of the mutual fund industry the post-Soviet Russia, stratification and status organizing processes in entrepreneurial organizations, studies of social movements and organizations, both external to and inside of organizations
