IT release management : a hands-on guide
"When implemented correctly, release management can help ensure that quality is integrated throughout the development, implementation, and delivery of services, applications, and infrastructure. This holistic, total cost of ownership approach allows for higher levels of system availability, is more cost effective to maintain, and increases overall stability, maintainability, and reliability. Filled with practical insights, IT Release Management: A Hands-on Guide clearly illustrates the effective implementation of a release process in the real world. It examines the similarities and differences of release management and project management to clear up any confusion there might be about the two complementary processes. Shedding light on the day-to-day challenges that need to be overcome to ensure success, it details the how-to's of effective implementationncluding what to implement, how to do it, and when to do it. This complete resource includes a detailed model for executing a release management process, as well as numerous templates, diagrams, and role and responsibility charts to help kick start implementation efforts in your organization. Addressing the all-important cultural aspects, it explains how to sell the benefits of release management to all levels of your organization, how to overcome objections, and how to determine organizational readiness. Emphasizing the need to measure performance, it explains how to develop effective performance metrics and supplies many helpful examples of effective productivity measures. When it comes to implementation, what works in one organization doesnt necessarily work in another. This accessible guide provides you with the tools to build on your practical knowledge and effectively implement a release management practice custom tailored to your organization"--Provided by publisher
"The purpose of this book is to provide a resource for organizations embarking on the journey of implementing a release management practice. Sharing lessons learned and providing practical process ideas will give the reader a useful resource to successfully implement a release process"--Provided by publisher
