Handbook of food process design / ed. by Jasim Ahmed; Mohammad Shafiur Rahman ; Vol. 1
"This book will offer a comprehensive account of the design of all major food processing systems, including both established and novel unit operations. The range of equipment available for any given process will be described, including the basic theoretical principles and modes of operation. Advantages and limitations of the equipment within various relevant parameters (such as size, processing time, cost and energy requirements) will be explained and schematic diagrams will be provided to show the stages of each process component in detail. The book also covers computer-aided design and control systems, cost considerations and cleaning and sanitation methods. Practical examples of process design scenarios will be included to help the reader in specifying and designing their own operations. All chapters will follow the following format:1.  Purpose of unit operation2.  What are the end products of the process?3.  Process flow sheet, material and energy balances, and schematic diagram of the process and its components4.  Basic theoretical principles and mode of operations.5.  Different types of equipment available with their advantages and limitations. What are the parameters we need to know? For example, time, energy, size, and other factors.6.  Empirical data and rules of thumb used to facilitate the various design calculations, simplified equations and shortcut methods.7.  Simple equations, tables, and graphs to estimate the design parameters.8.  Process control, operations and maintenance of the unit operations.9.  Advanced levels of process design for complicated systems. Computer aided process/plant design.10.  Cleaning and sanitation methods.11.  Capital and operating cost for different size of the equipments.12.  Summary and future needs.13.  Worked out examples related to design"--
"This book will offer a comprehensive account of the design of all major food processing systems, including both established and novel unit operations. The range of equipment available for any given process will be described, including the basic theoretical principles and modes of operation. Advantages and limitations of the equipment within various relevant parameters (such as size, processing time, cost and energy requirements) will be explained and schematic diagrams will be provided to show the stages of each process component in detail. The book also covers computer-aided design and control systems, cost considerations and cleaning and sanitation methods"--
