Alternative pre-mRNA splicing : theory and protocols
This book was written for graduate and medical students, as well as clinicians and postdoctoral researchers. It describes the theory of alternative pre-mRNA splicing intwelve introductory chapters and then introduces protocols and their theoretical background relevant for experimental research. These 43 practical chapters cover: Basic methods, Detection of splicing events, Analysis of alternative pre-mRNA splicing in vitro and in vivo, Manipulation of splicing events, and Bioinformatic analysis of alternative splicing. A theoretical introduction and practical guide for molecular biologi
This book was written for graduate and medical students, as well as clinicians and postdoctoral researchers. It describes the theory of alternative pre-mRNA splicing in twelve introductory chapters and then introduces protocols and their theoretical background relevant for experimental research. These 43 practical chapters cover: Basic methods, Detection of splicing events, Analysis of alternative pre-mRNA splicing in vitro and in vivo, Manipulation of splicing events, and Bioinformatic analysis of alternative splicing. A theoretical introduction and practical guide for molecular biologists, geneticists,clinicians and every researcher interested in alternative splicing. Website: www.wiley-vch.de/home/splicing  Stefan Stamm is Associate Professor in the Department for Molecular and Cellular Biochemistry at the University of Kentucky. He studied Biochemistry in Hannover (Germany) and did the practical work for his PhD as well as postdoctoral work at the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, NY. His research focuses on mechanisms and regulation of alternative splicing, with the aim to apply the fi ndings to the Prader-Willi Syndrome and Spinal Muscular Atrophy. Chris Smith is Professor of RNA Molecular Biology in the Department of Biochemistry at the University of Cambridge. His PhD research in Biochemistry was carried out at the University of London, followed by postdoctoral research at Harvard Medical School. His research interests encompass the mechanisms, regulation and function of alternative splicing. Reinhard Luhrmann is Director at the Max Planck Institute for Biophysical Chemistry in Gottingen where he is head of the Department of Cellular Biochemistry. He is an Honorary Professor at the University of Gottingen. He has studied chemistry at the University of Munster where he also received his PhD. He worked as a postdoctoral fellow at the Max Planck Institute for Molecular Genetics in Berlin. His research focuses on the structure and mechanism of the spliceosome.
