Linear programming and algorithms for communication networks : a practical guide to network design, control, and management
"Preface The purpose of mathematical programming, or optimization, is to maximize or minimize an objective function considering some constraints. One of the applications of mathematical programming is to design and control communication networks, which consist of multitudes of nodes and links. For example, when the capacity of each link is given in a network, a key problem is to find an optimum set of routes on which a traffic flow from a source node to a destination node can be maximized. Another related example is as follows: when the capacity and cost of each link in a network and a traffic demand from a source node to a destination node are given, a frequent problem is to find an optimum set of routes that minimizes the total cost of transmitting the required traffic demand. These problems are solved by using the techniques raised in the field of mathematical programming. Linear Programming (LP) is a special case of mathematical programming, where the objective function and all the constraints are expressed as linear functions. Since most of many basic and fundamental optimization problems on communication networks are categorized into LP problems, this book focuses on LP. There are several excellent books that well describe LP and its applications to communication networks for undergraduate and graduate students. Most of them explain how to theoretically solve optimization problems, while those on communication networks may provide some simple examples of typical applications of LP to communication networks by formulating problems on network design and control"--
"Explaining how to apply to mathematical programming to network design and control, Linear Programming and Algorithms for Communication Networks: A Practical Guide to Network Design, Control, and Management fills the gap between mathematical programming theory and its implementation in communication networks. From the basics all the way through to more advanced concepts, its comprehensive coverage provides readers with a solid foundation in mathematical programming for communication networks. Addressing optimization problems for communication networks, including the shortest path problem, max flow problem, and minimum-cost flow problem, the book covers the fundamentals of linear programming and integer linear programming required to address a wide range of problems. It also: Examines several problems on finding disjoint paths for reliable communicationsAddresses optimization problems in optical wavelength-routed networksDescribes several routing strategies for maximizing network utilization for various traffic-demand modelsConsiders routing problems in Internet Protocol (IP) networksPresents mathematical puzzles that can be tackled by integer linear programming (ILP)Using the GNU Linear Programming Kit (GLPK) package, which is designed for solving linear programming and mixed integer programming problems, it explains typical problems and provides solutions for communication networks. The book provides algorithms for these problems as well as helpful examples with demonstrations. Once you gain an understanding of how to solve LP problems for communication networks using the GLPK descriptions in this book, you will also be able to easily apply your knowledge to other solvers. "--
