BYOD for healthcare
"Many companies have already adopted bring your own device (BYOD). Most interestingly, a very high percentage of workers think that it's a right rather than a privilege to use their own devices at work. This book helps readers understand these new end users and their demands, as well as the strategic and tactical ramifications of these demands. It covers a broad range of technical considerations such as selection, connectivity, training, support, and security. All of this will be related specifically to the Healthcare industry integration to health information technology, legal, regulatory and ethical issues, etc."--
"Preface Where once end users queued up to ask information technology (IT) permission to buy a new computer or new version of software, they are now bypassing IT altogether and buying it on their own. From laptops to smartphones. From iPads to any number of software apps, end users have tasted their freedom and love them. IT is just never going to be the same. Welcome to the brave new world of "bring your own devices" (BYODs). The roots of BYOD can be traced back to the consumerization of all things technology, where technical wizardry is no longer purely the domain of the geek who works for the IT department. Geeks can now be found all over the organization. These workers want to make their own technology choices, whether those choices are on the "approved" list or the company pays for it. Seventy percent of organizations have already adopted BYOD. Gartner predicts this number to increase to 90% by 2014. Most interestingly, a very high percentage of workers think that it is a right rather than a privilege to use their own devices at work. So, it is really not a question of if. It is not even a question of when. It is a question of will you be ready. Of course, the healthcare industry is not the same as most other industries. Hospitals, clinics, and medical offices are not stores, hotels, or assembly lines, although all of these industries are affected by the economy, productivity, regulation, and the need for assessment. hBYOD: Adapting BYOD for the Healthcare Industry provides the guidance necessary for living in this brave new world. You will first learn how to understand these new end users and their demands, as well as the strategic and tactical ramifications of these demands. BYOD will then cover the broad range of technical considerations such as selection,"--
