Modern synthetic methods in carbohydrate chemistry : from monosaccharides to complex glycoconjugates
Filling a gap in the current literature for a book with this emphasis, this ready reference presents a comprehensive overview of the latest developments in this emerging field, ranging from cyclodextrin chemistry to the synthesis of such highly complex glycoconjugates as glycosphingolipids and GPI anchors, plus much more besides. Retaining a strong focus on the synthetic aspects throughout, the book is an excellent source of information for those already involved in carbohydrate chemistry, as well as for those organic chemists who are beginners in this field. Equally of high interest to synthetic chemists, as well as medicinal and biochemists.  Daniel B. Werz is Emmy Noether Assistant Professor at the University of Goettingen, Germany. Having obtained his academic degrees from University of Heidelberg he spent over two years of postdoctoral research with Peter H. Seeberger at ETH Zurich, Switzerland before taking up his present position in Goettingen. Dr. Werz has authored and co-authored over 85 scientific publications and has received several scientific fellowships and awards, including the Ruprecht Karls Award of the University of Heidelberg (2004), a Feodor Lynen Fellowship of the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation (2004), the Klaus Grohe Award of the German Chemical Society (2006), the Glyco Thera Award (2010) and a Dozentenstipendium of the Fonds of the Chemical Industry (2011). Sebastien Vidal is Charge de Recherche at Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique (CNRS) and is responsible of a small research team at ICBMS (Universite Claude Bernard Lyon 1, France). In 2000, he has obtained his PhD in organic chemistry from Universite Montpellier II (Montpellier, France) working on mannose 6-phosphate analogues. He then continued as a postdoctoral fellow in the group of J. Fraser Stoddart at University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA, USA) for 3 years to design synthetic methodologies for the preparation of glycodendrimers. After another postdoctoral position at the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL, Golden, Colorado, USA) under the guidance of Joseph J. Bozell, he then moved back to France and was appointed as a CNRS fellow in 2004. Dr. Vidal has co-authored over 40 scientific publications all devoted to carbohydrate chemistry.
"Filling a gap in the current literature for a book with this emphasis, this ready reference presents a comprehensive overview of the latest developments in this emerging field, ranging from cyclodextrin chemistry to the synthesis of such highly complex glycoconjugates as glycosphingolipids and GPI anchors, plus much more besides. Retaining a strong focus on the synthetic aspects throughout, the book is an excellent source of information for those already involved in carbohydrate chemistry, as well as for those organic chemists who are beginners in this field. Equally of high interest to synthetic chemists, as well as medicinal and biochemists"--
