A novel green treatment for textiles : plasma treatment as a sustainable technology
"Focusing on green chemistry and sustainability, this book discusses how plasma treatment has been used to modify textile properties. The book highlights the benefits of generating plasma and the reaction mechanisms between the surface of a textile and plasma species. The text addresses factors such as the nature of plasma gas, gas flow rate, system pressure, and discharge power that affect the final results of plasma treatments. An opening chapter presents current "brown" methods of treating textiles, exploring the environmental, economic and social costs of these methods. Throughout the book, the author presents the twelve principles of green chemistry and how they can be applied to the textile industry. "--
"1 Introduction 'Sustainable', 'greener' and 'cleaner' production have recently become important issues in textile manufacturing processes. The supply chain of textiles includes fibre production, yarn spinning, fabric manufacturing, textile wet processing, final products distribution (retailing, marketing and merchandising) and disposal. Among the different steps in the supply chain, the textile wet processing involves the use of large amounts of energy, chemicals and water, etc. Thus, the industry is now seeking solutions to achieve 'sustainable', 'greener' and 'cleaner' production methods in its daily operations. 1.1 Twelve Principles of Green Chemistry for Textile Wet Processing What is textile wet processing (Leung, Lo, and Yeung 1996)? After textile materials have been made, by being spun into yarn or woven into fabric, they still contain impurities which make them undesirable for immediate use. Such textiles are usually referred to as 'grey textiles' or 'grey goods'--they are unattractive to consumers because of their appearance, handle (feel), and lack of serviceability and durability. Textile wet processing is the collective term for the processes that are used to improve the textiles in term of these properties. The most common way to examine textile wet processing is to split it into the following three stages: 1. Pretreatment or preparation 2. Colouration (dyeing and printing) 3. Finishing"--
