The future of the world's climate
SECTION I: The Anthropocene. 2. People, Policy and Politics in Future Climates ; 3. Urban Climates ; 4. Human Effects on Climate through Land Surface Modification -- SECTION II: Time and Tide. 5. Fast and Slow Feedbacks in Future Climates ; 6. Ocean Climates In The Future ; 7. Climatic Variability on Decadal to Century Time-Scales ; 8. The Future of the World's Glaciers ; 9. Future Regional Climates -- SECTION III: Looking Forward 10. Climate and weather extremes: observations, modelling and projections ; 11. Interaction Between Future Climate and Terrestrial Carbon and Nitrogen ; 12. Climate-chemistry interaction: Tropospheric ozone and sulfate aerosols ; 13. Climatic Effects of Changing Atmospheric Aerosol Levels -- SECTION IV: Learning Lessons ; 14. Records from the Past, Lessons for the Future: what the palaeo-record implies about mechanisms of global change ; 15. Modeling the Past and Future Interglacials in Response to The Astronomical and Greenhouse Gas Forcing ; 16. Catastrophe: Extraterrestrial Impacts, Massive Volcanism and the Biosphere -- SECTION V: Understanding the Unknowns ; 17. Expect the Unexpected: Future Climate Surprises ; 18. Earth's Climate from Geophysiology to Earth System Science. - The study of climate today seems to be dominated by global warming, but these predictions of climatic models must be placed in their geological, paleo-climatic, and astronomical context to create a complete picture of the Earth's future climate. The Future of the World's Climate presents that perspective with data and projections that have emerged from more technologically advanced and accurate climate modeling. The book is comprised of 18 new and revised chapters that feature reviews of current climate science. The authors are drawn from all over the world and from the highest regarded peer-reviewed groups. Each chapter has undergone major revisions and new content has been added throughout. Authored by the world's leading climate scientists, most of whom are also contributing authors to the IPCC Assessment Reports. More than 200 tables, diagrams, illustrations, and photographs Climate modeling technology is more advanced and precise than it was 15 years ago-a major implication featured in this new edition
The study of climate today seems to be dominated by global warming, but these predictions of climatic models must be placed in their geological, paleo-climatic, and astronomical context to create a complete picture of the Earth's future climate. The Future of the World's Climate presents that perspective with data and projections that have emerged from more technologically advanced and accurate climate modeling. The book is comprised of 18 new and revised chapters that feature reviews of current climate science. The authors are drawn from all over the world and from the highest regarded peer-reviewed groups. Each chapter has undergone major revisions and new content has been added throughout. Authored by the world's leading climate scientists, most of whom are also contributing authors to the IPCC Assessment Reports. More than 200 tables, diagrams, illustrations, and photographs Climate modeling technology is more advanced and precise than it was 15 years ago-a major implication featured in this new edition
