City logistics : mapping the future
Prefac e Freight transport systems are essential for the sustainable development of cities by balancing smart economic growth and a better environment and quality of life in urban areas. The concepts of city logistics have been developed and implemented for achieving the efficient and environmentally friendly urban freight transport systems. Comprehensive planning and management of urban freight transport is required for mobile, sustainable, and livable cities, which incorporates reduced transport costs and higher levels of logistics services as well as a cleaner, quieter, and safer environment for residents. This book contains recent advances in city logistics, including modeling, evaluating, and planning urban freight transport systems. The aim of the book is to provide comprehensive knowledge and experience on city logistics for researchers and students as well as administrators and logistics managers in industry. Because there are multiple stakeholders, including shippers, carriers, administrators, and residents in urban freight transport, we would like to disseminate the important concepts of city logistics to those who are involved or interested in urban freight transport. This book will assist in understanding the background, objectives, methodologies, and governance of city logistics. This includes a mathematical treatment of goods movement in urban areas as well as the evaluation and implementation of city logistics policy measures. A number of case studies in various cities throughout the world are provided to help understand the real applications and issues. Moreover, the future perspectives focus on the new frontiers of city logistics.
City Logistics: Mapping The Future examines the key concepts of city logistics along with the associated implementation issues, methodologies, and policy measures. Chronicling the growth of city logistics as a discipline and how planning and policy have improved practice over the last ten years, it details the technologies, policies, and plans that can reduce traffic congestion, environmental impact, and the cost of logistics activities in urban freight transportation systems.The book provides a comprehensive study of the modelling, planning, and evaluation of urban freight transport. It includes case studies from the US, UK, Netherlands, Japan, South Africa, and Australia that illustrate the experiences of cities that have already implemented city logistics, including the methods used to solve the complex issues relating to urban freight transport.Presents procedures for evaluating city logistics policy measuresProvides an overview of intelligent transport systems in city logisticsHighlights the essential features of joint delivery systems and off-hour delivery programsSupplies an overview of access restrictions and regulations related to city logistics in urban areasExpert contributors from major cities around the world discuss regional developments, share success stories and personal experiences, and highlight emerging trends in urban logistics. Coverage includes mathematical modeling, public policy planning and implementation, logistics in urban planning designs, and urban distribution centers.The book examines the impact of recent advancements in technology on city logistics, including information and communication technologies, intelligent transport systems, and GPS. It also considers future directions in city logistics, including humanitarian logistics, alternative transport modes in co-modality, last kilometer deliveries, partnerships between public and private sectors, alternative fuel vehicles, and emerging technologies such as 3D printing.
