High performance liquid chromatography in pesticide residue analysis
Section I. Practical guide to HPLC methods of pesticide residue analysis. Overview of the field of chromatographic methods of pesticide residue analysis and organization of the book / Tomasz Tuzimski and Joseph Sherma -- Pesticide classification and properties / Tomasz Tuzimski -- Method development of chromatography: retention-eluent composition relationships and application to analysis of pesticides / Tomasz Tuzimski and Edward Soczewiński -- Choice of the mode of chromatographic method for analysis of pesticides on the basis of the properties of analytes / Piotr Kawczak, Tomasz Bączek, and Roman Kaliszan -- Choice of mode of sample preparation in the analysis of pesticides on the basis of the properties of the matrix / Robert E. Smith, Kevin Tran, Chris Sack, and Kristy M. Richards -- Selection of the mode of stationary phases and columns for analysis of pesticides / Bogusław Buszewski and Szymon Bocian -- Selection of the type of mobile phases for analysis of nonionic analytes: reversed- and normal-phase HPLC / Tomasz Tuzimski -- Selection of the mobile phases for analysis of ionic analytes: reversed-phase, ion-pair, ion-exchange, ion-exclusion HPLC / Monika Waksmundzka-Hajnos and Anna Petruczynik -- Optimization of normal-phase and reversed-phase systems for analysis of pesticides: choice of the mode of elution-isocratic and gradiation elution / Pavel Jandera -- Section II. Kinetic study of pesticides. Kinetics study of pesticides in the environment: application of HPLC to kinetic effects of pesticide analysis / Lukasz Cieśla -- Phototransformation of pesticides in the environment / Davide Vione, Marco Minella, and Claudio Minero -- Section III. Applications of HPLC and UPLC to separation and analysis of pesticides from various classes. Sample preparation for determination of pesticides by high-performance liquid chromatography and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry / Robert E. Smith, Kevin Tran, Chris Sack, and Kristy M. Richards -- Quantitative analysis and method validation / Renato Zanella, Osmar Damian Prestes, Manoel Leonardo Martins, and Martha Bohrer Adaime -- Analysis of pesticides by HPLC-UV, HPLC-DAD (HPLC-PDA), and other detection methods / Tomasz Tuzimski -- High-performance liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry as a method of identification and quantification of pesticides / Ana Masiá and Yolanda Picó -- Multidimensional liquid chromatography applied to the analysis of pesticides / Ahmed Mostafa, Heba Shaaban, and Tadeusz Górecki -- Chiral separation of some classes of pesticides by high-performance liquid chromatography method / Imran Ali, Iqbal Hussain, Mohd Marsin Sanagi, and Hassan Y. Aboul-Enein -- Application in pesticide analysis: liquid chromatography - a review of the state of science in biomarker discovery and identification / Peipei Pan and Jeanette M. Van Emon -- Ultra-performance liquid chromatography applied to analysis of pesticides / María de los Ángeles Herrera Abdo, José Luis Martínez Vidal, and Antonia Garrido Frenich -- High-performance liquid chromatography versus other modern analytical methods for determination of pesticides / Tomasz Tuzimski and Joseph Sherma
