Acid gas extraction for disposal and related topics
Rate-base simulations of absorption processes : fata morgana or panacea? / P.J.G. Huttenhuis and G.F. Versteeg -- Modelling in acid gas removal processes / Alan E. Mather -- Thermodynamic approach of CO2 capture, combination of experimental study and modeling / Karine Ballerat-Busserolles, Alexander R. Lowe, Yohann Coulier, and J.-Y. Coxam -- Employing simulation software for optimized carbon capture process / Wafa Said-Ibrahim, Irina Rumyantseva, and Manya Garg -- Expectations from simulation / R. Scott Alvis, Nathan A. Hatcher, and Ralph H. Weiland -- Calorimetry in aqueous solutions of demixing amines for processes in CO2 capture / Karine Ballerat-Busserolles, Alexander R. Lowe, Yohann Coulier, and J.-Y. Coxam -- Speciation in liquid-liquid phase-separating solutions of aqueous amines for carbon capture applications by raman spectroscopy / O. Fandiño, M. Yacyshyn, J.S. Cox, and P.R. Tremaine -- A simple model for the calculation of electrolyte mixture viscosities / Marco A. Satyro and Harvey W. Yarranton -- Phase equilibria investigations of acid gas hydrates : experiments and modelling / Zachary T. Ward, Robert A. Marriott, and Carolyn A. Koh -- Thermophysical properties, hydrate and phase behaviour modelling in acid gas-rich systems / Antonin Chapoy, Rod Burgass, Bahman Tohidi, Martha Hajiw, and Christophe Coquelet -- 'Self-preservation' of methane hydrate in pure water and (water + diesel oil + surfactant) dispersed systems / Xinyang Zeng, Changyu Sun, Guangjin Chen, Fenghe Zhou, and Qidong Ran -- The development of integrated multiphase flash systems / Carl Landra, Yau-Kun Li, and Marco A. Satyro -- Reliable PVT calculations : can cubics do it? / Herbert Loria, Glen Hay, Carl Landra, and Marco A. Satyro -- Vapor-liquid equilibria predictions of carbon dioxide + hydrogen sulfide mixtures using the CPA, SRK, PR, SAFT, and PC-SAFT equations of state / M. Naveed Khan, Pramod Warrier, Cor J. Peters, and Carolyn A. Koh -- Capacity control considerations for acid gas injection systems / James Maddocks -- Review and testing of radial simulations of plume expansion and confirmation of acid gas containment associated with acid gas injection in an underpressured clastic carbonate reservoir / Alberto A. Gutierrez and James C. Hunter -- Three-dimensional reservoir simulation of acid gas injection in complex geology : process and practice / Liaqat Ali and Russell E. Bentley -- Production forecasting of fractured wells in shale gas reservoirs with discontinuous micro-fractures / Qi Qian, Weiyao Zhu, and Jia Deng -- Study on the multi-scale nonlinear seepage flow theory of shale gas reservoir / Weiyao Zhu, Jia Deng, and Qi Qian -- CO2 EOR and sequestration technologies in PetroChina / Yongle Hu, Xuefei Wang, and Mingqiang Hao -- Study on the microscopic residual oil of CO2 flooding for extra-high water-cut reservoirs / Zengmin Lun, Rui Wang, Chengyuan Lv, Shuxia Zhao, Dongjiang Lang, and Dong Zhang -- Monitoring of carbon dioxide geological utilization and storage in China : a review / Qi Li, Ranran Song, Xuehao Liu, Guizhen Liu, and Yankun Sun -- Separation of methane from biogas by absorption-adsorption hybrid method / Yong Pan, Zhe Zhang, Xiong-Shi Tong, Hai Li, Xiao-Hui Wang, Bei Liu, Chang-Yu Sun, Lan-Ying Yang, and Guang-Jin Chen
