System engineering management
"A practical, step-by-step guide to total systems management Systems Engineering Management, Fifth Edition is a practical guide to the tools and methodologies used in the field. Using a "total systems management" approach, this book covers everything from initial establishment to system retirement, including design and development, testing, production, operations, maintenance, and support. This new edition has been fully updated to reflect the latest tools and best practices, and includes rich discussion on computer-based modeling and hardware and software systems integration. New case studies illustrate real-world application on both large- and small-scale systems in a variety of industries, and the companion website provides access to bonus case studies and helpful review checklists. The provided instructor's manual eases classroom integration, and updated end-of-chapter questions help reinforce the material. The challenges faced by system engineers are candidly addressed, with full guidance toward the tools they use daily to reduce costs and increase efficiency. System Engineering Management integrates industrial engineering, project management, and leadership skills into a unique emerging field. This book unifies these different skill sets into a single step-by-step approach that produces a well-rounded systems engineering management framework.  Learn the total systems lifecycle with real-world applications   Explore cutting edge design methods and technology   Integrate software and hardware systems for total SEM   Learn the critical IT principles that lead to robust systems    Successful systems engineering managers must be capable of leading teams to produce systems that are robust, high-quality, supportable, cost effective, and responsive. Skilled, knowledgeable professionals are in demand across engineering fields, but also in industries as diverse as healthcare and communications. Systems Engineering Management, Fifth Edition provides practical, invaluable guidance for a nuanced field"--
