X-ray diffraction for materials research : from fundamentals to applications
"X-ray diffraction is a useful and powerful analysis technique for characterizing crystalline materials commonly employed in MSE, physics, and chemistry. This informative new book describes the principles of X-ray diffraction and its applications to materials characterization. It consists of three parts. The first deals with elementary crystallography and optics, which is essential for understanding the theory of X-ray diffraction discussed in the second section of the book. Part 3 describes how the X-ray diffraction can be applied for characterizing such various forms of materials as thin films, single crystals, and powders. The book presents a number of examples to help readers better comprehend the subject. X-Ray Diffraction: From Fundamentals to Applications also provides background knowledge of diffraction to enable nonspecialists to become familiar with the topics; covers the practical applications as well as the underlying principle of X-ray diffraction; presents appropriate examples with answers to help readers understand the contents more easily; includes thin film characterization by X-ray diffraction with relevant experimental techniques; presents a huge number of elaborately drawn graphics to help illustrate the content. The book will help readers (students and researchers in materials science, physics, and chemistry) understand crystallography and crystal structures, interference and diffraction, structural analysis of bulk materials, characterization of thin films, and nondestructive measurement of internal stress and phase transition. Diffraction is an optical phenomenon and thus can be better understood when it is explained with an optical approach, which has been neglected in other books. This book helps to fill that gap, providing information to convey the concept of X-ray diffraction and how it can be applied to the materials analysis. This book will be a valuable reference book for researchers in the field and will work well as a good introductory book of X-ray diffraction for students in materials science, physics, and chemistry."--
