Thin films on silicon
"A thin film is a layer of material ranging from fractions of a nanometer (monolayer) to several micrometers in thickness. Silicon (Si) is one of the most important semiconductors today because it has a very low occurrence of defects. While it's the building block of most electronic devices, other semiconductors are becoming more important in the industry because of their superior properties. The search for organic semiconductors as well as hybrid materials which combine organic and inorganic materials is underway. Scientists are searching for the materials most capable of absorbing light over a wide range of solar wavelengths and with the lowest manufacturing cost. This book explores the recent advances and remaining challenges in thin-film silicon"--
Semiconductors on Si. Current trends in group-IV semiconductor epitaxy for nanoelectronics / Jean-Michel Hartmann (CEA, LETI, Minatec Campus) -- Silicon carbide on silicon: 3C-SIC buffer layers for GaN LEDS / Jessica Chai, Li Wang and Sima Dimitrijev (Queensland Micro- and Nanotechnology Center, Griffith University, Nathan) -- Epitaxy of GaN on silicon / Yu Cao, Satyaki Ganguly, Grace (Huili) Xing and Debdeep Jena (Electrical Engineering, University of Notre Dame), Oleg Laboutin and Wayne Johnson (IQE Kc LLC) -- III-V semiconductors on silicon: arsenides and phosphides for QWFETs and BJTs / Dmitri Lubyshev (IQE Kc LLC) -- Dielectrics on Si. Organosilicates on Si: low-k dielectrics for MOSFET interconnect insulation / Mikhail R. Baklanov, Kris Vanstreels, Chen Wu (Department of Metallurgy and Materials Engineering, Katholieke University Leuven, Belgium ), Yunlong Li and Kristof Croes (IMEC, Leuven, Belgium) -- Silicon nitride on Si: electronic structure of traps for flash memory / Vladimir A. Gritsenko (Institute of Semiconductor Physics, Russian Academy of Science, Siberian Branch) -- High-k oxides on Si: MOSFET gate dielectrics / Takashi Ando (IBM T.J. Watson Research Center), Unoh Kwon (IBM Semiconductor Research and Development Center ), Siddarth Krishnan (IBM Semiconductor Research and Development Center ), Martin M. Frank (IBM T.J. Watson Research Center), and Vijay Narayanan (IBM T. J. Watson Research Center) -- Materials for DRAM memory cell applications / Uwe Schroeder and Stefan Slesazeck (NaMLab GmbH/TU Dresden, Germany), Kyuho Cho (Samsung Electronics, Semiconductor Research Center, Hwasung, Korea) -- Electro-optically active oxides on silicon for photonics / Stefan Abel and Jean Fompeyrine (IBM Research--Zurich, Switzerland) -- Metals on Si. Silicides on Si: MOSFET contacts / Ahmet S. Özcan (IBM Semiconductor Research & Development Center, East Fishkill NY, USA)
