The Ganges River Basin : status and challenges in water, environment and livelihoods
Surface water resources / Sharad Kumar Jain, Marc A. Jeuland, Luna Bharati and Zahirul Haque Khan -- Groundwater resources / Dipankar Saha, Anwar Zahid, Surendra Raj Shreshtha and Paul Pavelic -- Climate change and the Ganges Basin / Marc A. Jeuland -- Managing variability : floods and droughts / Giriraj Amarnath, A.K.M. Saiful Islam and M.S. Shrestha -- Agriculture and water use : implications for sustainable intensification / Bharat Sharma, Alok K. Sikka, Ram Pratap Sah and Xueliang Cai -- Hydropower : the status and challenges / Dwarika N. Dhungel, Santa Bahadur Pun, Sonali Mittra and M. Monirul Qader Mirza -- Water-food-energy nexus : challenges and opportunities / Christopher A. Scott, Arica Crootof, Bhuwan Thapa and Rashmi Kiran Shreshtha -- Ganges water machine : one solution to basin water problems? / Upali A. Amarasinghe and Lal Mutuwatte -- Environmental flows : keeping the basin rivers alive / Vladimir Smakhtin and Luna Bharati -- Ecosystem services and conservation assessment of freshwater biodiversity / Asghar Nawab, Ravindra Kumar Sinha, Paul M. Thompson and Subodh Sharma -- Arsenic in the eastern Ganges basin : extent and impact on food chain and human health / Rajmohan Natarajan, Dipankar Chakraborti and Sanmugam Prathapar -- Ganges water quality : dirty past, promising future / Javier Mateo-Sagasta and Vinod Tare -- Institutions and policies governing water resources management / M. Dinesh Kumar, Dwarika N. Dhungel, M. Monirul Qader Mirza and Diana Suhardiman -- Poverty, inequalities and vulnerability of the rural poor / Upali A. Amarasinghe, Fraser Sugden and Floriane Clement -- Gender, agricultural investment and productivity in an era of out-migration / Fraser Sugden, Panchali Saikia, Niki Maskey-Amatya and Paras Pokhrel -- Can there be progress on transboundary water cooperation in the Ganges? / Mark Giordano, Dipak Gyawali, Ainun Nishat and Uttam Kumar Sinha -- Basin water challenges : an agenda for accelerated reform / Tushaar Shah, Prachanda Pradhan and Golam Rasul
