White biotechnology for sustainable chemistry
Principles of green chemistry and white biotechnology / Bernardo Dias Ribeiro, Maria Alice Z. Coelho, and Aline Machado de Castro -- Sustainability, green chemistry and white biotechnology / Roger A. Sheldon -- Biocatalysis in organic media / A. Illanes -- Microwave assisted enzyme catalysis : practice and perspective / Ganapati D. Yadav and Saravanan Devendran -- Lipase-catalyzed reactions in pressurized fluids / Raquel Loss, Lindomar Lerin, José Vladimir de Oliveira, and Débora de Oliveira -- Biocatalysis in ionic liquids / Bernardo Dias Ribeiro, Ariane Gaspar Santos, and Isabel M. Marrucho -- Biocatalysis in micellar systems / Adelaide Braga and Isabel Belo -- Green downstream processing in the production of enzymes / P.F.F. Amaral and T.F. Ferreira -- Lipases in enantioselective sytheses : evolution of technology and recent applications / Denise Maria Guimarães Freire, Angelo Amaro Theodoro da Silva, Evelin de Andrade Manoel, Rodrigo Volcan Almeida, and Alessandro Bolis Costa Simas -- Redox biotechnological processes applied to fine chemicals / J. Augusto R. Rodrigues, Paulo J.S. Moran, Bruna Z. Costa, and Anita J. Marsaioli -- Production of polymers by white biotechnology / S. Shoda, A. Kobayashi, and S. Kobayashi -- Production of aroma compounds by white biotechnology / Juliano Lemos Bicas, Gustavo Molina, Francisco Fábio Cavalcante Barros, and Gláucia Maria Pastore -- Biotransformation using plant cell culture systems and tissues / Bernardo Dias Ribeiro, Evelin Andrade Manoel, Claudia Simões-Gurgel, and Norma Albarello -- Development of processes for the production of bulk chemicals by fermentation at industrial scale : an integrated approach / Jørgen Magnus -- Trends and perspectives in green chemistry and white biotechnology / Bernardo Dias Ribeiro and Maria Alice Zarur Coelho
White biotechnology is the use of enzymes and microorganisms in industrial production through applied biocatalysis. This allows for milder reaction conditions (pH and temperature) and the use of more environmentally-compatible catalysts and solvents. This, in turn, leads to processes which are shorter, generate less waste, making them both environmentally and economically more attractive than conventional routes.This book describes the use of white biotechnology within the sustainable chemistry concept, covering waste minimization; the use of alternative solvents (supercritical fluids, pressurized gases, ionic liquids and micellar systems) and energies (microwaves and ultrasound); sustainable approaches for the production of fine and bulk chemicals (aromas, polymers, pharmaceuticals and enzymes); the use of renewable resources and agro-industrial residues; and biocatalysts recycling.Covering industrial processes and new technologies, this book combines expertise from academia and industry. It is a valuable resource for researchers and industrialists working in biotechnology, green chemistry and sustainability
