Food production and nature conservation : conflicts and solutions
Introduction : Food Production and Nature Conservation : Conflicts and Solutions / Iain J. Gordon, Geoff R. Squire and Herbert H.T. Prins -- Feeding the Eleven Billion within the Sustainable Development Goals Framework / Munir A. Hanjra, Andrew Noble, Simon Langan and Jonathan Lautze -- Limits to Crop Production / Geoff R. Squire -- Can a Nature Reserve Help Feed a Family? : Protected Areas and Food Security / Nigel Dudley and Sue Stolton -- Protected Areas, Ecosystem Services, and Food Production / Jeffrey A. McNeely -- Agricultural Intensification and Diversity for Reconciling Production and Environment : The Role of Integrated Crop-Livestock Systems / Gilles Lemaire, Julie Ryschawy, Paulo César de Faccio Carvalho and François Gastal -- A Landscape Approach to Integrating Food Production and Conservation / Ivette Perfecto and John Vandermeer -- New Technologies : Costs and Benefits for Food Production in Contrasting Agro-ecological Production Systems / Michael J. Robertson, Nigel P. Preston and Graham D. Bonnett -- Utilising Genetic Diversity to Feed the World / Nigel Maxted and Anne Lauvie -- How Should Land Be Used? : Bioenergy and Responsible Innovation in Agricultural Systems / Alison Mohr, Orla Shortall, Richard Helliwell and Sujatha Raman -- Innovative Pasture Cropping : An Ecological Approach to Farming / Ndungi wa Mungai and Colin Seis -- Nature's Role in Feeding the Ten Billion : How Biodiversity can Benefit Agriculture / Rob Brooker -- Rebalancing Food Production and Nature Conservation : The Need for Design-oriented Research / Walter A.H. Rossing, Rodolphe Sabatier, Félix Teillard, Jeroen C.J. Groot and Pablo Tittonell -- Markets to Support Sustainable Food Production : Potentials and Challenges of Alternative Provisioning / Cristina Grasseni -- Global-Local Governance for Generating Transformative Pathways towards Sustainable Food Provisioning and Nature Conservation / Rosemary Hill and Jessica Duncan -- Conclusion : Re-engaging Agriculture with Nature / Iain J. Gordon, Geoff R. Squire and Herbert H.T. Prins
