Applications of nanobiomaterials / edited by Alexandru Mihai Grumezescu ; Volume 1: Fabrication and self-assembly of nanobiomaterials
Synthesis, characterization and applications of nanoparticles / Jiafu Chen, Hoda Javaheri, Basel Al-Chikh Sulaiman and Yaser Dahman -- Preparation and applications of self-assembled natural and synthetic nanostructures / Anjali Joshi, Narinder Singh and Gaurav Verma -- Self-assembly of nanobiomaterials / Melinda Varga -- Self-nanoemulsifying systems for oral bioavailability enhancement : recent paradigms / Bhupinder Singh, BabitaGarg, Ranjot Kaur, Atul Jain, Rajendra Kumar and O P Katare -- Sensing of reactive oxygen species by self-aggregating gold nanoparticle assemblies / Zannatul Yasmin, Alexis Catala, Saher Maswadi, Kelly L. Nash and  Randolph D. Glickman -- Plant mediated green synthesis of metallic nanoparticles : challenges and opportunities / Umesh K. Parida, Subash Das, Padan K. Jena, Niranjan Rout and Birendra K. Bindhani -- Exosomes : smart nanospheres for drug delivery naturally produced by stem cells /  Greg Maguire -- Controllable synthesis of lanthanide upconversion nanomaterials through impurity doping / Daqin Chen, Zhongyi Wan, Yang Zhou, Xiaojuan Liang, Mingye Ding, Jiasong Zhong, Zhenguo Ji and Weidong Xiang -- Nanocellulose---fabrication, structure, properties, and application in the area of care and cure / Michael Ioelovich -- Magnetosensitive nanocomposites with hierarchical nanoarchitecture as biomedical nanorobots : synthesis, properties, and application / Petro Petrovych Gorbyk, Leonid Borysovych Lerman, Alla Leonidivna Petranovska, Svitlana Petrivna Turanska and Ievgen Volodymyrovych Pylypchuk -- Designing and testing single tablet for tuberculosis treatment through electrospinning / Ibrahim A. Hassounah, Nader A. Shehata, Gade C. Kimsawatde, Amanda G. Hudson, Nammalwar Sriranganathan, Eugene G. Joseph and Roop L. Mahajan -- Synthesis, characteristics, and biocidal activity of silver nanoparticles / Marcin Banach and Jolanta Pulit-Prociak -- Nanobiomaterials : applications in biomedicine and biotechnology /  Thakur Gurjeet Singh, Sonia Dhiman, Manish Jindal, Inderjeet Singh Sandhu and Mansi Chitkara -- Control, design, and understanding of molecular self-assembly / Bethany R. Hughes and Yaser Dahman -- Self-assembly of transition metal nanoparticles using marine sources / Selvaraj Mohana Roopan and Ganesh Elango.
