Simple guide to understanding user interface design rules : designing with the mind in mind
Perceive what we expect -- Our vision is optimized to see structure -- We seek and use visual structure -- Reading is unnatural -- Our color vision is limited -- Our peripheral vision is poor -- Our attention is limited; our memory is imperfect -- Limits on attention shape thoughts and action -- Recognition is easy, recall is hard -- Learning from experience and performing learned actions is easy, problem solving and calculation are hard -- Many factors affect learning -- We have time requirements -- Epilogue -- Appendix. - "Take fundamental principles of psychology. Illustrate. Combine with Fundamental Principles of Design. Stir gently until fully blended. <=Read daily until finished. Caution: The mixture is addictive."--Don Norman, Nielsen Norman group, Author of Design of Future Things. "[This book] is a primer to understand the why of the larger human action principles at work-a sort of cognitive science for designers in a hurry. Above all, this is a book of profound insight into the human mind for practical people who want to get something done."--Stuart Card, Senior Research Fellow and the manager of the User Interface Research group at the Palo Alto Research Centerfrom the foreword "If you want to know why design rules work, Jeff Johnson provides fresh insight into the<=psychological rational for user-interface design rules that pervade discussions in the world of software product and service development." -- Aaron Marcus, President, Aaron Marcus and Associates, Inc. Early user interface (UI) practitioners were trained in cognitive psychology, from which UI design rules were based. But as the field evolves, designers enter the field from many disciplines. Practitioners today have enough experience in UI design that they have been exposed to design rules, but it is essential that they understand the psychology behind the rules in order to effectively apply them. In Designing with the Mind in Mind, Jeff Johnson, author of the best selling GUI Bloopers, provides designers with just enough background in perceptual and cognitive psychology that UI design guidelines make intuitive sense rather than being just a list of rules to follow. * The first practical, all-in-one source for practitioners on user interface design rules and why, when and how to apply them. * Provides just enough background into the reasoning behind interface design rules that practitioners can make informed decisions in every project. * Gives practitioners the insight they need to make educated design decisions when confronted with tradeoffs, including competing design rules, time constrictions, or limited resources
"Take fundamental principles of psychology. Illustrate. Combine with Fundamental Principles of Design. Stir gently until fully blended. ≤Read daily until finished. Caution: The mixture is addictive."--Don Norman, Nielsen Norman group, Author of Design of Future Things. "[This book] is a primer to understand the why of the larger human action principles at work-a sort of cognitive science for designers in a hurry. Above all, this is a book of profound insight into the human mind for practical people who want to get something done."--Stuart Card, Senior Research Fellow and the manager of the User Interface Research group at the Palo Alto Research Centerfrom the foreword "If you want to know why design rules work, Jeff Johnson provides fresh insight into the≤psychological rational for user-interface design rules that pervade discussions in the world of software product and service development." -- Aaron Marcus, President, Aaron Marcus and Associates, Inc. Early user interface (UI) practitioners were trained in cognitive psychology, from which UI design rules were based. But as the field evolves, designers enter the field from many disciplines. Practitioners today have enough experience in UI design that they have been exposed to design rules, but it is essential that they understand the psychology behind the rules in order to effectively apply them. In Designing with the Mind in Mind, Jeff Johnson, author of the best selling GUI Bloopers, provides designers with just enough background in perceptual and cognitive psychology that UI design guidelines make intuitive sense rather than being just a list of rules to follow. * The first practical, all-in-one source for practitioners on user interface design rules and why, when and how to apply them. * Provides just enough background into the reasoning behind interface design rules that practitioners can make informed decisions in every project. * Gives practitioners the insight they need to make educated design decisions when confronted with tradeoffs, including competing design rules, time constrictions, or limited resources
