Sustainable food planning : evolving theory and practice
Foreword / Tom Bliss -- Sustainable urban food provisioning: challenges for scientists, policymakers, planners and designers / Johannes S.C. Wiskerke and André Viljoen -- Sitopia -- harnessing the power of food / Carolyn Steel -- The integration of food and agriculture into urban planning and design practices / Joe L. Nasr and June D. Komisar. -- Part 1. Urban food governance. Food and the city: the challenge of urban food governance / Petra Derkzen and Kevin Morgan ; Food Policy Councils: recovering the local level in food policy / Philipp Stierand ; How food travels to the public agenda / Simone Plantinga and Petra Derkzen ; Food system planning in small, buzz-less cities: challenges and opportunities / Melanie Bedore ; Planning for urban agriculture: problem recognition, policy formation, and politics / Nevin Cohen ; Urban food procurement governance: a new playground for farm development networks in the peri-urban area of greater Paris region? / Ségolène Darly ; Sustainable food planning: evolving theory and practice ; The role of municipal markets in urban food strategies: a case study / Georgia Machell and Martin Caraher ; Traditional food markets: re-assessing their role in food provisioning / Julie Smith ; Marking the boundaries: position taking in the field of 'alternative' food consumption / Jessica Paddock ; Resilient urban community gardening programmes in the United States and municipal-third sector 'adaptive co-governance' / Henry Barmeier and Xenia K. Morin. -- Part 2. Integrating health, environment and society. Integrating health, environment and society -- introducing a new arena / Bettina B. Bock and Martin Caraher ; Policy for sustainable development and food for the city of Malmö / Gunilla Andersson and Helen Nilsson ; Meat moderation as a challenge for government and civil society: the Thursday Veggie Day campaign in Ghent, Belgium / Tobias Leenaert ; The perilous road from community activism to public policy: fifteen years of community agriculture in Sandwell / Laura Davis and John Middleton ; Making local food sustainable in Manchester / Les Levidow and Katerina Psarikidou ; Defining food co-ops / Martin Caraher and Georgia Machell ; Appetite for change: an exploration of attitudes towards dietary change in support of a sustainable food future / Anna Hawkins ; Sustainable food planning: evolving theory and practice. -- Part 3. Urban agriculture. Urban agriculture in developed economies / Jan Willem van der Schans and Johannes S.C. Wiskerke ; The purpose of urban food production in developed countries / Silvio Caputo ; Farming in Motown: competing narratives for urban development and urban agriculture in Detroit / Erica Giorda ; Why is there agriculture in Tokyo? From the origin of agriculture in the city to the strategies to stay in the city / Nelly Niwa ; Recommended practices for climate-smart urban and peri-urban agriculture / Tara L. Moreau, Tegan Adams, Kent Mullinix, Arthur Fallick and Patrick M. Condon ; The impact of local food production on food miles, fossil energy use and greenhouse gas emission: the case of the Dutch city of Almere / Jan-Eelco Jansma, Wijnand Sukkel, Eveline S.C. Stilma, Alex C. van Oost and Andries J. Visser ; Urban agriculture and seasonal food footprints: an LCA study of tomato production and consumption in the UK / Gillean M. Denny ; Growing alone, growing together, growing apart? Reflections on the social organisation of voluntary urban food production in Britain / Richard Wiltshire and Louise Geoghegan ; Public space, urban agriculture and the grassroots creation of new commons: lessons and challenges for policy makers / Chiara Tornaghi ; Urbaniahoeve: expanded urban agriculture / Debra Solomon. -- Part 4. Planning and design. Planning and designing food systems, moving to the physical / André Viljoen and Katrin Bohn ; Planning and the quest for sustainable food systems: explorations of unknown territory in planning research / Sanne M. Broekhof and Arnold J.J. van der Valk ; Nested scales and design activism: an integrated approach to food growing in inner city Leeds / Emma Oldroyd and Alma Anne Clavin ; Architecture et al.: food gardening as spatial co-authorship on London housing estates / Mikey Tomkins ; Food, homes and gardens: public community gardens potential for contributing to a more sustainable city / Carolin Mees and Edie Stone ; How food secure can British cities become? / Howard C. Lee ; Food seams: planning strategies for urban borders in New Orleans / Brittney Everett ; The CPUL City Toolkit: planning productive urban landscapes for European cities / Katrin Bohn and André Viljoen ; Designing multifunctional spatial systems through urban agriculture: the Casablanca case study / Christoph Kasper, Undine Giseke and Silvia Martin Han ; Good planning for good food: mechanisms within the English planning system to support sustainable food and farming / Harriet White and Suzanne Natelson ; The Food Urbanism Initiative / Craig Verzone ; Room for urban agriculture in Rotterdam: defining the spatial opportunities for urban agriculture within the industrialised city / Paul. A. de Graaf ; Progress through process: preparing the food systems report for the Chicago Metropolitan Agency for Planning GoTo2040 Plan / Lynn Peemoeller ; Slow briefs: slow food ... slow architecture / Joanna Crotch ; GreenEngines, a pedagogic tool on sustainable design and productive landscapes / Ana M. Moya Pellitero and Josué da Silva Eliziário
"Half the world's population is now urbanised and cities are assuming a larger role in debates about the security and sustainability of the global food system. Hence, planning for sustainable food production and consumption is becoming an increasingly important issue for planners, policymakers, designers, farmers, suppliers, activists, business and scientists alike. In the wider contexts of global climate change, resource depletion, a burgeoning world population, competing food production systems and diet-related public health concerns, new paradigms for urban and regional planning capable of supporting sustainable and equitable food systems are urgently needed. This book addresses this urgent need. By working at a range of scales and with a variety of practical and theoretical models, this book reviews and elaborates definitions of sustainable food systems, and begins to define ways of achieving them."--Publisher's website
