Quantum mechanics for electrical engineers
Explains quantum mechanics in language that electrical engineers understandAs semiconductor devices become smaller and smaller, classical physics alone cannot fully explain their behavior. Instead, electrical engineers need to understand the principles of quantum mechanics in order to successfully design and work with today's semiconductors.Written by an electrical engineering professor for students and professionals in electrical engineering, Quantum Mechanics for Electrical Engineers focuses on those topics in quantum mechanics that are essential for modern semiconductor theory.This book begins with an introduction to the field, explaining why classical physics fails when dealing with very small particles and small dimensions. Next, the author presents a variety of topics in quantum mechanics, including:. The SchrŠodinger equation. Fourier theory in quantum mechanics. Matrix theory in quantum mechanics. An introduction to statistical mechanics. Transport in semiconductorsBecause this book is written for electrical engineers, the explanations of quantum mechanics are rooted in mathematics such as Fourier theory and matrix theory that are familiar to all electrical engineers. Beginning with the first chapter, the author employs simple MATLAB computer programs to illustrate key principles. These computer programs can be easily copied and used by readers to become more familiar with the material. They can also be used to perform the exercises at the end of each chapter.Quantum Mechanics for Electrical Engineers is recommended for upper-level undergraduates and graduate students as well as professional electrical engineers who want to understand the semiconductors of today and the future
Frontmatter -- Introduction -- Stationary States -- Fourier Theory in Quantum Mechanics -- Matrix Algebra in Quantum Mechanics -- A Brief Introduction to Statistical Mechanics -- Bands and Subbands -- The SchŠordinger Equation for Spin-1/2 Fermions -- The Green's Function Formulation -- Transmission -- Approximation Methods -- The Harmonic Oscillator -- Finding Eigenfunctions Using Time-Domain Simulation -- Appendix A: Important Constants and Units -- Appendix B: Fourier Analysis and the Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) -- Appendix C: An Introduction to the Green's Function Method -- Appendix D: Listings of the Programs Used in this Book -- Index
