The plane wave spectrum representation of electromagnetic fields
Electrical Engineering/Electromagnetics The Plane Wave Spectrum Representation of Electromagnetic Fields A classic reissue in the IEEE/OUP Series on Electromagnetic Wave Theory Donald G. Dudley, Series Editor"I am pleased to see that the IEEE Press and OUP have secured the rights to republish this excellent monograph … a long-cherished exposition on the angular spectrum concept."-James R. WaitThe purpose of this book is to explain how general electromagnetic fields can be represented by the superposition of plane waves traveling in diverse directions, and to illustrate the way in which this plane wave spectrum representation can be put to good use in treating various characteristic problems belonging to the classical theories of radiation, diffraction and propagation. The book offers a largely unified theory of a range of problems, solutions to all of which are obtained in forms at least patently capable of yielding numerical results by straightforward means. The reader is assumed to be competent at integration in the complex plane, but otherwise the discussion is virtually self-contained. The aim is to furnish the student of electromagnetic theory with a useful technical tool and a comparatively compact account of some interesting aspects of his discipline. The contents are presented in two parts. The first, under the heading of Theory, covers Preliminaries, Plane wave representations; and Supplementary theory. The second, with the heading Application, deals with Diffraction by a plane screen; Propagation over a uniform plane surface; Propagation over a two-part plane surface; The field of a moving point charge; and Sources of anisotropic media.Also in the series…Field Computation by Moment Method An IEEE/OUP classic reissue R. F. Harrington, Syracuse University 1995, Hardcover, 240 pp.Waves and Fields in Inhomogeneous Media An IEEE/OUP classic reissue Weng Cho Chew, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign 1995, Hardcover, 632 pp.Methods in Electromagnetic Wave Propagation Second Edition D.S. Jones, University of Dundee 1994, Hardcover, 686 pp.About the seriesFormerly the IEEE Press Series on Electromagnetic Waves, this new joint series between IEEE Press and Oxford University Press offers even better coverage of the field with new titles as well as reprintings and revisions of recognized classics that maintain long-term archival significance in electromagnetic waves and applications. Designed specifically for graduate students, practicin ...
