Sensor network operations
This excellent title introduces the concept of mission-oriented sensor networks as distributed dynamic systems of interacting sensing devices that are networked to jointly execute complex real-time missions under uncertainity. It provides the latest, yet unpublished results on the main technical and application challenges of mission-oriented sensor networks. The authors of each chapter are research leaders from multiple disciplines who are presenting their latest innovations on the issues. Together, the editors have compiled a comprehensive treatment of the subject that flows smoothly from chapter to chapter. This interdisciplinary approach significantly enhances the science and technology knowledge base and influences the military and civilian applications of this field. Author Information: Dr. Shashi Phoha is the Guest Editor of IEEE Transactions in Mobile Computing, Special Issue on Mission-Oriented Sensor Networks. She is the Head of the Information Sciences and Technology Division of ARL and Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Pennsylvania State University. She has led major research programs of multimillion dollars for military sensor networks in industry as well as in academia. In addition to more than a hundred journal articles, she authored or co-authored several books in related areas. Dr. Thomas La Porta is the Editor of the IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing. He received his B.S.E.E. and M.S.E.E. degrees from The Cooper Union, New York, NY and his Ph.D. degree in Electrical Engineering from Columbia University, New York, NY. He joined the Computer Science and Engineering Department at Penn State in 2002 as a Full Professor. He is Director of the Networking Research Center at Penn State. Prior to joining Penn State, Dr. LaPorta was with Bell Laboratories since 1986. He was the Director of the Mobile Networking Research Department Bell Laboratories, Lucent Technologies, where he led various projects in wireless and mobile networking. He is an IEEE Fellow, Bell Labs Fellow, received the Bell Labs Distinguished Technical Staff Award, and an Eta Kappa Nu Outstanding Young Electrical Engineer Award. He has published over 50 technical papers and holds over 20 patents. Christopher Griffin holds a Masters degree in Mathematics from Penn State and is currently pursuing his Ph.D. there. Mr. Griffin has worked as a research engineer at the Penn State Applied Research Laboratory for the last six years on several DARPA and or Army Research ...
