Introduction to laser technology
Electrical Engineering Introduction to Laser Technology , Third Edition. Would you like to know how a laser works, and how it can be modified for your own specific tasks? This intuitive third edition-previously published as Understanding Laser Technology , First and Second Editions-introduces engineers, scientists, technicians, and novices alike to the world of modern lasers, without delving into the mathematical details of quantum electronics. It is the only introductory text on the market today that explains the underlying physics and engineering applicable to all lasers. A unique combinatio
Electrical Engineering Introduction to Laser Technology, Third Edition Would you like to know how a laser works, and how it can be modified for your own specific tasks? This intuitive third edition-previously published as Understanding Laser Technology, First and Second Editions-introduces engineers, scientists, technicians, and novices alike to the world of modern lasers, without delving into the mathematical details of quantum electronics. It is the only introductory text on the market today that explains the underlying physics and engineering applicable to all lasers. A unique combination of clarity and technical depth, this book begins with an introductory chapter that explains the characteristics and important applications of commercial lasers worldwide. It proceeds with discussions on light and optics, the fundamental elements of lasers, and laser modification. The concluding chapters are composed of a survey of modern lasers, including: . Semiconductor lasers. Optically pumped solid-state lasers. Ion, HeNe, and HeCd lasers. Carbon dioxide lasers. Excimer lasers (codiscovered by J. J. Ewing). Ultrafast and tunable lasers, OPOs Introduction to Laser Technology, Third Edition is intended for those who are familiar with the principles of electro-optical technology, but possess limited formal training. This comprehensive treatment is essential, one-stop shopping for professionals, students, and non-engineer executives interested in the design, sales, or applications of the laser and electro-optics industry
