Software engineering : Barry W. Boehm's lifetime contributions to software development, management, and research
Introduction. -- Acknowledgements. -- Chapter 1. Software Architecture and Quality. -- Chapter 2. Software Economics. -- Chapter 3. Software Tools. -- Chapter 4. Software Process: Early Spiral Model. -- Chapter 5. Software Risk Management. -- Chapter 6. Software Process: Emerging Extensions. -- Chapter 7. Software and Systems Management. -- Chapter 8. Software Engineering State of the Art and Practice. -- Chapter 9. Value-Based Software Engineering. -- Chapter 10. Being a Software Engineer in the Software Century. -- Index. -- About the Editor
Landmark findings and best practices from software engineering pioneer Barry W. Boehm based on forty years of research and experienceThis book presents forty-two of Barry W. Boehm's best articles on software engineering, organizes them into nine chapters with newly written summaries by nine of his colleagues, and concludes with a new chapter on Barry's "thoughts for the future." The book chapters address:. Software Architecture and Quality. Software Economics. Software Tools. Software Process: Early Spiral Model. Software Risk Management. Software Process: Emerging Extensions. Software and Systems Management. Software Engineering State of the Art and Practice. Value-Based Software Engineering. A Software Engineer in the Software CenturyThis book is recommended as a guide and resource for software engineers, project managers, and technology executives as well as a textbook for advanced undergraduate and graduate courses."In my view, Barry Boehm is single-handedly responsible for turning software engineering from an anecdote-driven, opinion-laden art form into data-driven, fact-based engineering."-Dr. William A. Wulf, President, National Academy of Engineering"This book is a must-read for all software engineers."-Dr. Yannis C. Yortsos, Dean, Viterbi School of Engineering, University of Southern California"Barry Boehm has led the effort to put a sound footing under software engineering. His Software Engineering Economics provided fact-grounded models that first enabled us to move beyond speculation in budgeting and scheduling. His spiral development model and risk-management strategies each constitute major advances in our thinking."-Dr. Frederick P. Brooks, Jr., Kenan Professor of Computer Science, University of North Carolina"This book makes clear Barry Boehm's enormous contributions to software engineering over several decades and provides a perspective no one else could have given."-Dr. Victor R. Basili, Professor of Computer Science, University of Maryland"This collection of articles illuminates why Barry Boehm is one of the software industry's most trusted advisors."-Walker E. Royce, Vice President, IBM Rational"Barry Boehm has spent much of his adult life guiding us and our industry; I, for one, am full of gratitude."-Tom DeMarco, Principal, The Atlantic Systems Guild"Read Boehm's hints that will make your software shop tick."-Dr. Lawrence Bernstein, Professor of Software Engineering, Stevens Institute of Technology"Barry Boehm's insights into software ...
