Portugal : the impossible revolution?
Klappentext der Ausgabe von 2012: After the military coup in Portugal on April 25th, 1974, the overthrow of almost fifty years of Fascist rule, and the end of three colonial wars, there followed eighteen months of intense, democratic social transformation which challenged every aspect of Portuguese society. What started as a military coup turned into a profound attempt at social change from the bottom up and became headlines on a daily basis in the world media. This was due to the intensity of the struggle as well as the fact that in 1974-75 the right-wing moribund Francoist regime was still in power in neighboring Spain and there was huge uncertainty as to how these struggles might affect Spain and Europe at large. This is the story of what happened in Portugal between April 25, 1974, and November 25, 1975, as seen and felt by a deeply committed participant. It depicts the hopes, the tremendous enthusiasm, the boundless energy, the total commitment, the released power, even the revolutionary innocence of thousands of ordinary people taking a hand in the remolding of their lives. And it does so against the background of an economic and social reality which placed limits on what could be done.
Der Autor: Phil Mailer was born in Dublin in Ireland in 1946 and is a resident of Ireland and Portugal. After living in London where he was on the fringes of the King Mob group, he went to Portugal in 1973 and actively participated in the events following the Carnation Revolution of April, 1974. He was an editor of the newspaper Combate and managed a bookshop, Contra A Corrente, in Lisbon with other Portuguese revolutionaries. He has been a long-time translator from Portuguese and has translated the song lyrics and poems of José Afonso (whose song 'Grandola' was a signal for the revolution) into English.
Rezension: "This book chronicles an amazing feat, the bloodless overthrow of a cruel and oppressive dictator. What is remarkable is that it was written as a diary by a very smart student, who chronicled the small daily events and and diagramed the various players. To learn how largely uneducated people, barely getting by, often squabbling amongst themselves and without cell phones or social media took back their country, is inspiring reading for anyone concerned about today's growing corporate fascism under the guise of 'populist' leaders."
