Intelligent design creationism and its critics : philosophical, theological, and scientific perspectives
Is theism compatible with evolution? Roy Clouser -- Is genetic information irreducible? Phillip E. Johnson -- Reply to Phillip Johnson Richard Dawkins -- Reply to Johnson George C. Williams -- Intelligent design as a theory of information William A. Dembski -- Information and the argument from design Peter Godfrey-Smith -- How not to detect design -- critical notice: William A. Dembski, The design inference Branden Fitelson Christopher Stephens Elliott Sober -- The "information challenge Richard Dawkins -- Who's got the magic? William A. Dembski -- The wizards of ID: reply to Dembski Robert T. Pennock -- The panda's thumb Stephen Jay Gould -- The role of theology in current evolutionary reasoning Paul A. Nelson -- Appealing to ignorance behind the cloak of ambiguity Kelly C. Smith -- Nonoverlapping magisteria Stephen Jay Gould -- Why creationism should not be taught in the public schools Robert T. Pennock -- Creation and evolution: a modest proposal Alvin Plantinga -- Reply to Plantinga's "modest proposal Robert T. Pennock
The wedge at work: how intelligent design creationism is wedging its way into the cultural and academic mainstream Barbara Forrest -- Evolution as dogma: the establishment of naturalism Phillip E. Johnson -- Naturalism, evidence, and creationism: the case of Phillip Johnson Robert T. Pennock -- Response to Pennock Phillip E. Johnson -- Reply: Johnson's Reason in the balance Robert T. Pennock -- When faith and reason clash: evolution and the Bible Alvin Plantinga -- When faith and reason cooperate Howard J. Van Till -- Plantinga's defense of special creation Ernan McMullin -- Evolution, neutrality, and antecedent probability: a reply to McMullin and Van Till Alvin Plantinga -- Molecular machines: experimental support for the design inference Michael J. Behe -- Born-again creationism Philip Kitcher -- Biology remystified: the scientific claims of the new creationists Matthew J. Brauer Daniel R. Brumbaugh -- Methodological naturalism? Alvin Plantinga -- Methodological naturalism under attack Michael Ruse -- Plantinga's case against naturalistic epistemology Evan Fales -- Plantinga's probability arguments against evolutionary naturalism Branden Fitelson Elliott Sober -- Creator or blind watchmaker? Phillip E. Johnson -- Phillip Johnson on trial: a critique of his critique of Darwin Nancey Murphy -- Welcoming the "disguised friend" -- Darwinism and divinity Arthur Peacocke -- The creation: intelligently designed or optimally equipped? Howard J. Van Till
