The financial services marketing handbook : tactics and techniques that produce results
Segmentation. Learning from the consumer side. Methods of segmentation. Choosing target segments. Objective methods of segmentation. Segmentation by psychographic clusters. Customer value segmentation. Finding your target segments. Identifying current market segments -- Positioning and branding. Positioning. Determining one's positioning strategy. Branding. Creating a brand image. "Borrowing" a brand image. Supporting a brand. Repositioning and rebranding -- The market plan. Types of marketing plans. Researching your plan. Quantitative market research. Qualitative research. The elements of the plan. The SWOT analysis. Competitive analysis. Marketing objectives. Implementation. Implementation tactics. Choosing tactics. Metrics to track and measure success -- Media advertising. Media selection. Print advertising. Print buying decisions. Advertising effectiveness. Creating effective creative. Legal and regulatory considerations. Field advertising and co-op programs -- Public relations. Third party endorsement. The tools of PR. PR for every budget. Getting press coverage. Dealing with bad press -- Sponsorship and event marketing. What is the value of sponsorships? Cause marketing. Activating a sponsorship program. Planning to maximize sponsorship value. Measuring the effectiveness of sponsorship -- Direct marketing. Goals of direct methods. Personalization. Finding the best lists. Factors affecting direct mail response. Getting past the gatekeeper. Dimensionals, premiums, and other gimmicks. Costs. Elements of the package. Telemarketing. Regulations affecting direct marketers -- The internet. The internet as one channel among many. The internet as a marketing tool. Improving web site usability. Website content. Company information. Educational information. Customer service. Sales support. Transactions. Relationship-based marketing. Customer acquisition. Advertising on the web -- Personal selling. Traditional relationships between sales and marketing. "Bottom-up" marketing. Third-party sales. High-net worth sales. Institutional sales. Changes in the sales distribution model. How sales can help marketing help sales -- Trade shows and seminars. Trade shows. Breaking through booth clutter. Lead follow-up. Measuring results. Seminars. Planning. Marketing the seminar. During the seminar. The presentation. Follow-up : the key to success. Measuring results -- Relationship marketing. Why customer retention matters. Methods of relationship building. Formal loyalty programs. Client publications
The financial industry is under constant pressure to improve profits, attract and retain high-value clients, and maintain brand equity. This book gives marketing and sales professionals the information they need to produce maximum value from each marketing dollar. Anyone in the financial industry can benefit from this book, from senior corporate management and product developers to independent financial advisers and salespeople. Case studies illuminate the innovations of industry leaders such as Merrill Lynch, Fidelity, Bank of America, and Capital One and, perhaps more tellingly, analyze mark
