The advertised mind : ground-breaking insights into how our brains respond to advertising
10. From brains to advertisements -- 11. Why should advertising be researched? -- What I learnt from a Zulu miner with little formal education about communication theories -- A more empirical (rational) argument in favour of copy testing -- 12. It is getting more difficult to be memorable -- Introduction -- Empirical evidence -- The Adtrack database -- How advertising clutter affects TV's power -- Declining advertising memorability is not necessarily declining advertising effectiveness -- 13. Advertising, learning and memory -- The Adtrack database -- Television advertisement length -- Television frequency effect -- Print -- Time and attention -- Multi-media effects -- Conscious and unconscious learning -- The workings of memory -- Direct response advertising -- You interpret advertising using your own memories -- Internet advertising -- 14. The attention continuum -- Can an advertisement work if it gets no attention? -- Heath's error -- What the rest of the book is about -- 15. What ad-liking means -- Research by Esther Thorsen and John Philip Jones -- SPOT and Adtrack -- The COMMAP model -- Understanding the dimensions in the COMMAP model -- The interaction between the COMMAP dimensions -- Rachel Kennedy replicates COMMAP in Australia -- Earlier evidence about the importance of ad-liking -- Applying the COMMAP model -- COMMAP versus Link -- Ad-liking and print advertising -- 16. Recognition, recall and persuasion -- Measuring how advertisements are remembered -- Left- and right-brain memories -- Recognition and recall versus persuasion -- 17. Advertisement memories and brand linkage -- Introduction -- Memories and forgetfulness -- Some empirical evidence -- Neurology -- Anecdotal evidence -- The Millward Brown 'creative magnifier' -- 18. Exposing the consumer to the advertising : media strategy -- Introduction -- What Professor Bahrick taught me -- Impact and decay rates -- Retention rates improve over time -- The impact-retention chart -- Conclusion -- 19. Professor Ehrenberg and double jeopardy ; or, the effect of the brand on the advertising -- The double jeopardy theory -- Habitual purchasing -- Brand equity -- Brand liking -- Brand usage affects advertising noting -- 20. The mental world of brands and the objective of advertising -- The 'brand memory-advertising memory' paradigm -- Advertising memories -- What tumbles out first? -- Advertising and brand equity -- 21. 'I told you so' -- 22. The emotional and the rational -- Learnings from the emotional filter model -- Conclusion -- Appendix. Choosing a copy testing methodology
"In The Advertised Mind du Plessis draws on the very latest research into the workings of the human brain undertaken by psychologists, neurologists and artificial intelligence specialists. He uses this research to suggest why emotion is such an important factor in establishing a firm memory of an advertisement and predisposing consumers to buy the brand that is being advertised. He also draws on the findings of Adtrack's world-famous database of responses to over 30,000 TV commercials (the largest in the world). He explores what "ad-liking" really means, and suggests how this emerging paradigm about the role of emotion could lead to a new phase in the ongoing effort to obtain maximum return from advertising spend."--Jacket
