Motivation, emotion, and cognition : integrative perspectives on intellectual functioning and development
The central argument of this book is that cognition is not the whole story in understanding intellectual functioning and development. To account for inter-individual, intra-individual, and developmental variability in actual intellectual performance, it is necessary to treat cognition, emotion, and motivation as inextricably related
Beyond Cognitivism: Toward an Integrated Understanding of Intellectual Functioning and Development / David Yun Dai and Robert J. Sternberg -- Cognition in Motivational and Affective Contexts -- Motivational Effects on Attention, Cognition, and Performance / Carol S. Dweck, Jennifer A. Mangels, and Catherine Good -- Role of Affect in Cognitive Processing in Academic Contexts / Elizabeth A. Linnenbrink and Paul R. Pintrich -- Interest, a Motivational Variable That Combines Affective and Cognitive Functioning / Suzanne Hidi, K. Ann Renninger, and Andreas Krapp -- Intelligence and Personality: From Psychometrics to Personal Dynamics -- Cognitive, Affective, and Conative Aspects of Adult Intellect Within a Typical and Maximal Performance Framework / Phillip L. Ackerman and Ruth Kanfer -- Traits, States, and the Trilogy of Mind: An Adaptive Perspective on Intellectual Functioning / Gerald Matthews and Moshe Zeidner -- Integrating Emotion and Cognition: The Role of Emotional Intelligence / Marc A. Brackett, Paulo N. Lopes, Zorana Ivcevic, John D. Mayer and Peter Salovey -- Development of Intellectual Competencies -- Affect, Self-Motivation, and Cognitive Development: A Dialectical Constructivist View / Juan Pascual-Leone and Janice Johnson -- Dynamic Integration: Affect Optimization and Differentiation in Development / Gisela Labouvie-Vief and Maria Marquez Gonzalez -- A Model of Domain Learning: Reinterpreting Expertise as a Multidimensional, Multistage Process / Patricia A. Alexander -- Motivation, Emotion, and Expert Skill Acquisition / Neil Charness, Michael Tuffiash, and Tiffany Jastrzembski -- Intellectual Functioning and Development in Social and Cultural Contexts -- Self-Regulating Intellectual Processes and Outcomes: A Social Cognitive Perspective / Barry J. Zimmerman and Dale H. Schunk -- When Is Good Thinking? / David Perkins and Ron Ritchhart -- Thought and Affect in American and Chinese Learners' Beliefs About Learning / Jin Li and Kurt W. Fischer -- Epilogue: Putting It All Together: Some Concluding Thoughts / David Yun Dai
