One electorate under God? : a dialogue on religion and American politics
The Puritans and American politics Andrew Greeley -- Two faces of religious pluralism in American politics John C. Green -- Religion, politics, and a changing America Anna Greenberg -- Protecting religion from politics Susannah Heschel -- Faith and politics Amory Houghton Jr. -- The fate of the Christian left Michael Kazin -- The myth of secularism M.A. Muqtedar Khan -- The spiritual dimension of societal life Glen C. Loury -- Governing religion Martha Minow -- Particularist religion in a pluralist political arena Stephen V. Monsma -- Voting not to vote Mark A. Noll -- Religion, faith, and elections David Novak -- Reasoning together Ramesh Ponnuru -- Faith in public office David E. Price -- The personalization of politics Jeffrey Rosen -- The role of religion in electoral politics Cheryl J. Sanders -- Mobilizing political participation Julie A. Segal -- Religions and the American religion James W. Skillen -- Religious liberty and the American founding Matthew Spalding -- Thoughts on religion and politics Jeffrey Stout -- Belief and power Robert Suro -- Dignity in work as an article of faith John Sweeney -- It's the content that counts W. Douglas Tanner Jr. -- Faith and the public square Jim Towey -- Faith communities and American democracy Mark R. Warren -- Faith, freedom, and toleration Alan Wolfe
How would God vote?: an introduction E.J. Dionne Jr. and Kayla M. Drogosz -- PART I. FAITH AND POLITICS IN PUBLIC OFFICE -- In the American Catholic tradition of realism Mario Cuomo -- A conservative Christian's view of public life Mark Souder -- Continuing the conversation -- PART II. EXPANDING THE DIALOGUE -- What is a Christian to do? Doug Bandow -- Religion, politics, and the American experience Michael Barone -- The conservatory of virtue Gary L. Bauer -- The religious left, too often left out Paul E. Begala -- American politics and the dissenting Protestant tradition Robert Bellah -- How Niebuhr helps us kick the secularist habit: a six step program David Brooks -- Once more, the cross and the flag Harvey Cox -- Common grace, natural law, and the public arena Michael Cromartie -- Faithful consensus John J. DiIulio Jr. -- Rendering to Caeser and to God Terry Eastland -- God talk and the citizen-believer Jean Bethke Elshtain -- The politics of religion in a sinful world Richard Wightman Fox -- Cuomological fallacies Robert P. George
