Corporate venturing : organizing for innovation
1. Corporate venturing in health care : a CbusineZ case -- 2. Corporate venturing in the chemical industry : a colourful case -- 3. BAC BV : the successful exit of a Unilever spin-out -- 4. Document Services Valley : a lifeline for the printing industry? -- 5. Innovation projects and venturing at Rabobank : creating a new dynamic -- 6. Eindhoven University of Technology's InnovationLab : commercializing scientific research for scientific research itself -- 7. SanomaVentures : innovating by attracting entrepreneurial talent -- 8. nrc.next : reinventing printed news -- 9. Discussion and conclusions -- 10. Top 10 best practices for managing corporate ventures
'Corporate venturing is of great strategic importance in today's world of accelerated change in business and technology. In one of the best and most current books on the subject, Van den Bosch and Duysters guide readers through carefully-selected case studies that will enlighten the practitioner and academic alike.'--Dana T. Redford, Portuguese Catholic University and President, Platform for Entrepreneurship Education in Portugal. 'Before an innovation gets the green light in large corporations, it needs to be proved that the innovation will be successful: successful and lucrative. And that's exactly what you can't ever know in advance for a true innovation. Corporate Venturing: Organizing for Innovation shows how corporate oil tankers can take full advantage of innovative speedboats.'--Danny Mekic, Entrepreneur. Large organizations can struggle to keep up with today's fast-changing market and technological developments. However, an increasing number of businesses now engage in corporate venturing as a way to enhance their innovation process. This book fills the gap in management literature by providing a detailed account of best practices in the organization and management of such corporate ventures. The authors highlight eight main cases of organizations that employ corporate venturing within their firms. The cases illustrate how leading corporations organize their corporate venturing process and highlight the best practices that can be distilled from their experience. Jessica van den Bosch and Geert Duysters explain how the ideal corporation is one that is able to combine the scale and pure power of a large organization with the creativity, flexibility and resilience of a small one. With a compendium of useful case studies, and practical guidelines on corporate venturing, this book will appeal to managers, consultants and all leaders involved in the process of creating new ventures within large organizations
