Determinants of economic growth in Africa
This volume is a collection of selected empirical studies on determinants of economic growth in Africa. Grouped into three parts, chapters examine the influence of financial sources and economic growth; sources of productivity growth; and prices, exchange rates and trade relationships with growth in regions in Africa or the continent as a whole. This edited book is authored by African experts in the field who employ diverse up-to-date data and methods to provide robust empirical results based on representative firms, household surveys and secondary country level data covering individuals or multiple countries on the continent. It contains a wealth of empirical evidence, deep analyses and sound recommendations for policymakers and researchers for designing and implementing effective social and national policies and strategies to prevent and to reduce poverty and its negative effects on poor households and in poor regions. The volume will be a useful resource for policymakers and researchers involved in promoting economic growth and fighting poverty. It will also appeal to a broader audience interested in economic development, resource economics, policies, economic welfare and inclusive growth.
1. Introduction to Determinants of Economic Growth in Africa and summary of the contributions- Almas Heshmati -- Part I. Financing Growth -- 2. The FDI and Economic Growth Controversy in sub-Saharan Africa- Yemane Michael -- 3. Determinants of Foreign Direct Investment Inflows to Africa- Alemayehu Geda and Addis Yimer -- 4. Impact of Foreign Direct Investment on Economic Growth in Eastern Africa- Biratu Bekere and Mekonnen Bersisa -- 5. The Role of Remittance, Foreign Direct Investment and Foreign Aid on Economic Growth of Low and Middle Income African Countries- Gutu Gutema -- 6. The Role of Financial Development and Institutional Quality on Economic Growth in Africa in the Era of Globalization- Kahsay Berhane -- Part II. Sources of Productivity Growth -- 7. The Determinants of the Level and Growth of TFP in SSA- Yemane Michael -- 8. Human Capital and Economic Growth in Developing Countries: Evidences from Low and Middle Income African Countries- Jonse Bane -- 9. Labour Productivity in Kenyan Manufacturing and Service Industries- Almas Heshmati and Masoomeh Rashidghalam -- Part III. Macroeconomic Determinants of Growth -- 10. Inferences on the Relationship between Economic Growth and the Real Exchange Rate: a Meta-Analysis- Fentahun Baylie -- 11. Balance of Trade - Economic Growth Nexus in Panel of East Africa Community Countries- Ferdinand Nkikabahizi, Theogene Rizinde and Mathias Karangwa -- 12. Modeling the Effect of Food Price Volatility and Transmission on Market Efficiency and Welfare in East African Community- Jean-Baptiste Habyarimana and Tharcisse Nkunzimana
