Social entrepreneurship : an affirmative critique
Contents: Acknowledgements -- 1. The books on social entrepreneurship we edit, critique and imagine / Chris Steyaert and Pascal Dey -- Part I Social Entrepreneurship, political representation and myth-busting -- 2. A methodological critique of the social enterprise growth myth / Simon Teasdale, Fergus Lyon and Robyn Owen (Baldock) -- 3. Nonprofit commercial revenue: A replacement for declining government grants and private contributions? / Janelle A. Kerlin and Tom H. Pollak -- 4. Bursting the bubble: The mythologies of many social enterprises and enterprising nonprofits? / Raymond Dart -- Part II Social entrepreneurship, ideology and power effects -- 5. The tale of the veil: Unweaving Big Society and the social enterprise myth / Chris Mason and Michael Moran -- 6. Myth in social entrepreneurship: Rationalist, ideological and dialectic practices of demystification / Pascal Dey and Chris Steyaert -- 7. Social entrepreneurship: Mythological 'doublethink' / Lew Perren -- Part III Social entrepreneurship and its enactments -- 8. '(It) is exactly what it was in me' - The performativity of social entrepreneurship / Stefanie Mauksch -- 9. Of course, trust is not the whole story. Narratives of dancing with a critical friend in social enterprise-public sector collaborations / Pam Seanor -- 10. Social entrepreneurship: Performative enactments of compassion / Karin Berglund -- Part IV Social entrepreneurship, participation and democracy -- 11. Deliberative democracy in social entrepreneurship: A discourse ethics approach to participative processes of social change / Trish Ruebottom -- 12. Social entrepreneurship and democracy / Angela M. Eikenberry -- 13. Social entrepreneurship, democracy and political participation / Denise Horn -- Part V Social entrepreneurship, relationality and the possible -- 14. Expanding the realm of the possible: Field theory and a relational framing of social entrepreneurship / Victor J. Friedman, Israel Sykes and Markus Strauch -- 15. Becoming possible in the anthropocene? Becoming-socialentrepreneurship as more-than-capitalist practice / Marta B. Calás, Seray Ergene, Linda Smircich -- 16. New framings and practices of critical research / Jenny Cameron -- Index.
Pascal Dey and Chris Steyaert provide a timely critique on the idea of social entrepreneurship and its reputation as a means for positive social change. The book uses different traditions and modes of critique to interrogate, disrupt and reimagine the concept of social entrepreneurship. Presented in five parts, each individual contribution uses a different critical perspective to analyse and assess social entrepreneurship in its mythological, ideological and performative constitution, looking for its democratic possibilities and alternative affirmations. Using varied analytical approaches, the resulting work highlights the need for a greater recognition of the unintended effects of social entrepreneurship and in doing so, adds nuance to a concept that has gone relatively unchallenged. In addition, each chapter identifies intriguing points for further research. Scholars in the fields of social entrepreneurship, management and organizational studies will find this a relevant and insightful work. Those with a wider scholarly interest in critical research, particularly in the humanities or social sciences, will also find the critical approaches compelling
