The rise of megacities : challenges, opportunities and unique characteristics
The complexity of and challenges in the emergence of megacities -- The rise of megacities : an empirical overview of the demographic changes in the world economy and an introduction to an integral theory of megacities / Jerzy Kleer and Katarzyna A. Nawrot -- Megacities : devastation of the public sphere / Jerzy Kleer -- From metropolis to megacity / Piotr Korcelli and Ewa Korcelli-Olejniczak -- Governance of megacities : selected aspects of international experience / Tadeusz Markowski -- Development patterns of megacities and their future / Zygmunt Ziobrowski -- Threats and challenges posed by the rise of megacities / Konrad Prandecki, Wojciech Kazanecki and Sylwia Smietanko -- Megacities and threats to human health / Agata Penconek -- The impact of megacities on human nature / Maria Szyszkowska -- Opportunities in the development of megacities : regional, national and multidisciplinary perspectives -- Rural-urban migration, urbanization and megacities in China / Feng Wengmeng -- Megacities in India : where are the opportunities? / Gaurang Rami And Yogesh N. Vansiya -- African megacities as emerging innovation ecosystems / Katarzyna A. Nawrot, Calestous Juma and James Donald -- A smart future for energy in megacities / Jessen Page -- What future lies ahead for megacities in Europe? / Jerzy Kleer and Katarzyna A. Nawrot -- Case studies of selected megacities -- Tokyo and Delhi : a comparative analysis of Asian megacities / Katarzyna A. Nawrot -- Shanghai : the first megalopolis on the globe? / Bogdan Góralczyk -- Mexico City : an antithesis of sustainable development? / Urszula Zulawska and Elzbieta Zulawska-Sobczyk -- Dhaka : the perils and promises of an Asian megacity / Adnan Morshed -- Lagos : directions of development of Nigerian metropolis in the first decades of the 21st century / Malwina Bakalarska -- New York : a city of progress / Bohdan Szklarski and Piotr Szyja -- Epilogue -- In lieu of a conclusion: megacities : boon or bane? / Jerzy Kleer and Katarzyna A. Nawrot
