Research handbook of diversity and careers
This unique Research Handbook covers a wide range of issues that affect the careers of those in diverse groups: age, appearance, disability, gender, race, religion, sexuality and transgender. This work includes cross-disciplinary contributions from over 50 international academics, researchers, policy-makers, managers and psychologists, who review current thinking, practices, initiatives and developments within diversity and careers research on an international scale. They also consider the implication of diversity legislation for organizations and the individual, providing an insight into the future direction of research and practice. Unlike other research in the field, this work presents wide-ranging and holistic coverage of diverse groups in addition to considering the implication of individuals who appear in multiple categories. Students, academics and researchers in the fields of human resources, management and employment as well as those whose study encompasses diversity, development and equality will find this Research Handbook to be a useful and insightful read
Introduction / Adelina M. Broadbridge and Sandra L. Fielden -- Part I: Age -- 1. Age and generational diversity in careers / Emma Parry -- 2. To mid-career women managers: experiences of gendered age, care and work / Linda McKie and Marjut Jyrkinen -- 3. Older women and career development: double (triple) jeopardy or endless opportunities? / Judy McGregor -- 4. The last career transition?: a gendered perspective on retirement / Frances Tomlinson -- Part II: Appearance -- 5. The importance of how you look for getting in and getting on in the workplace / Dennis Nickson -- 6. Size does matter: the impact of size on career / Patricia V. Roehling, Mark V. Roehling and Austin Elluru -- 7. 'She's got the look': examining feminine and provocative dress in the workplace / Joy Van Eck Peluchette and Katherine Karl -- 8. The perils of pretty: effects of personal appearance on women's careers / Stefanie K. Johnson, Ksenia Keplinger, Jessica F. Kirk and Elsa T. Chan -- ^Part III: Disability -- 9. Diversity orientation and disability in organizational leadership / Mark E. Moore and Lana L. Huberty -- 10. Career development for individuals with disabilities: examining issues of equity, access and opportunity / Lauren Lindstrom, Kara Hirano and Richie Thomas -- 11. Career development for young adults with disabilities: an intersectional analysis / Laurie Gutmann Kahn, Edwin Obilo Achola, and Tiana Povenmire-Kirk -- 12. What about a career?: the intersection of gender and disability / Gemma L. Bend and Vincenza Priola -- Part IV: Gender -- 13. Impostor syndrome as a way of understanding gender and careers / Thomas Calvard -- 14. Using the Kaleidoscope Career Model to create cultures of gender equity / Sherry E. Sullivan and Shawn M. Carraher -- 15. Bullying and career consequences in the academy: experiences of women faculty / Tanuja Agarwala -- 16. Career issues for women in the banking sector / Melissa Hynd and Adelina Broadbridge -- Part V: Race -- ^17. Minority ethnic careers in professional services firms / Doyin Atewologun -- 18. Visioning Muslim women leaders and organisational leadership in the 21st century / Shirley Anne Tate and Naheed Arshad-Mather -- 19. Aboriginal entrepreneurship: is it a career or a lifestyle change? / Dennis Foley -- 20. Gender, employment and careers in Pakistan / Sammar Javed, Jawad Syed and Royce Turner -- Part VI: Religion -- 21. Glass doors or sealed borders?: careers of veiled Muslim women in Lebanon / Yusuf M. Sidani -- 22. Muslim women at work / Edwina Pio -- 23. Veiling careers: comparing gendered work in Islamic and foreign banks in Pakistan / Shafaq A. Chaudhry and Vincenza Priola -- 24. Religion and callings: the divine in careers / Edwina Pio, Robert Kilpatrick and Timothy Pratt -- Part VII: Sexuality -- 25. Sexuality,gender identity and career journeys / Mustafa Bilgehan Ozturk and Ahu Tatli -- 26. Out at work? / Fiona Gavin -- ^27. Coming out of the closet?: the implications of increasing visibility and voice for the career development of LGB employees in UK private sector organisations / Fiona Colgan -- 28. Lesbian career experiences / Sandra L. Fielden and Hannah Jepson -- Part VIII: Transgender -- 29. Transpeople, work and careers: a queer theory perspective / Nick Rumens -- 30. Declining career prospects as 'transition loss'?: on the career development of transgender employees / Thomas K ollen -- 31. Brothers are doing it for themselves: transmen and the creation of boundaryless and protean career choices / Helen Woodruffe-Burton -- 32. 'Trans-ferring in the workplace / Jackie Jones -- Index
