2nd Karl Schwarzschild Meeting on Gravitational Physics
Karl Schwarzschild Lecture: Singularities, Horizons, Firewalls, and Local Conformal Symmetry: Gerard ’t Hooft -- Panel Discussion, “The Duel”: The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly of Gravity and Information: Gerard ’t Hooft, Steven B. Giddings, Carlo Rovelli, Piero Nicolini, Jonas Mureika, Matthias Kaminski and Marcus Bleicher -- Part I Black Holes in Classical General Relativity, Numerical Relativity, Astrophysics, Cosmology and Alternative Theories of Gravity -- A Menagerie of Hairy Black Holes: Elizabeth Winstanley -- Black Holes Sourced by a Massless Scalar: Mariano Cadoni and Edgardo Franzin -- Rotating Black Hole Solutions in f (R)-Gravity: Mariafelicia De Laurentis and Ruben Farinelli -- Symplectic structure of extremal black holes: Kamal Hajian, Ali Seraj -- The Causal Nature of Trapping Horizons: Ilia Musco, Alexis Helou and John C. Miller -- Einstein-Charged Scalar Field Theory: Black Hole Solutions and Their Stability: Supakchai Ponglertsakul, Sam Dolan and Elizabeth Winstanley -- The good properties of Schwarzschild’s singularity: Ovidiu Cristinel Stoica -- Part II Black Holes in Quantum Gravity and String Theory -- Quantum Black Holes as the Link Between Microphysics and Macrophysics: B. J. Carr -- Free Energy of Topologically Massive Gravity and Flat Space Holography: Daniel Grumiller and Wout Merbis -- Super-Entropic Black Holes: Robert B. Mann -- Aspects of Quantum Chaos Inside Black Holes: Andrea Addazi -- Black Hole Entropy in the Presence of Chern-Simons Term and Holography: Tatsuo Azeyanagi -- A Quantum Cosmic Conjecture: Roberto Casadio and Octavian Micu -- Phase transitions of regular Schwarzschild-Anti-deSitter black holes: Antonia Micol Frassino -- Thermal Corpuscular Black Holes: Andrea Giugno -- Generalized uncertainty principle and extra dimensions: Sven Köppel, Marco Knipfer, Maximilano Isi, Jonas Mureika, Piero Nicolini -- Perihelion Precession and Generalized Uncertainty Principle: Fabio Scardigli and Roberto Casadio -- Quantum-gravity phenomenology with primordial black holes: F. Vidotto, A. Barrau, B. Bolliet, M. Schutten and C. Weimer -- Part III Other Topics in Contemporary Gravitation -- Self Sustained Traversable Phantom Wormholes and Gravity’s Rainbow: Remo Garattini -- Cosmology via Metric-Independent Volume-Form Dynamics: Eduardo Guendelman, Emil Nissimov and Svetlana Pacheva -- Testing General Relativity on Accelerators: Tigran Kalaydzhyan -- Size Scaling of Self Gravitating Polymers and Strings: Shoichi Kawamoto and Toshihiro Matsuo -- The Hot and Dense QCD Equation of State in Heavy Ion Collisions and Neutron Star Mergers: Jan Steinheimer, Ayon Mukherjee, Natascha Wechselberger, Matthias Hanauske, Stefan Schramm and Horst Stöcker
This book presents the proceedings of the 2nd Karl Schwarzschild Meeting on Gravitational Physics, focused on the general theme of black holes, gravity and information. Specialists in the field of black hole physics and rising young researchers present the latest findings on the broad topic of black holes, gravity, and information, highlighting its applications to astrophysics, cosmology, particle physics, and strongly correlated systems
