The Oxford handbook of American women's and gender history
"The Oxford Handbook of American Women's and Gender History" boldly explores the history of diverse women and how ideas about gender shaped their access to political and cultural power in North America over six centuries. In 29 chapters, the handbook showcases women's and gender history as an integrated field with its own interpretation of the past, focused on how gender influenced people's lives as they participated in migration, colonialism, trade, warfare, artistic production, and community-building. Organized chronologically and thematically, the handbook's six sections allow readers to consider historical continuities of gendered power as well as individual innovations and ruptures in gender systems. Theoretically cutting edge, each chapter bursts with fascinating historical characters, from young Chicanas transforming urban culture, to free women of color forging abolitionist doctrines, to Asian migrant women defending the legitimacy of their marriages, to working-class activists mobilizing international movements, to transwomen fleeing incarceration. Together, their lives constitute the history of a continent" --
Gender frontiers and early encounters / Kathleen M. Brown -- Manhood and gender in the United States empire / Toby L. Ditz -- Women, conquest, and imperialism in the American West / Deena J. González -- Gender, migration, and the American empire / Lorena Oropeza -- Women, unfree labor, and slavery in the Atlantic world / Marisa J. Fuentes -- Women, power, and families in early modern North America / Sarah M. S. Pearsall -- Women and slavery in the nineteenth century / Daina Ramey Berry and Nakia D. Parker -- Women's labors in industrial and post-industrial America / Eileen Boris and Lara Vapnek -- Public and print cultures of sex in the long nineteenth century / Patricia Cline Cohen -- Interracial sex, marriage, and the nation / Mary Ting Yi Lui -- Reproduction, birth control, and motherhood in the United States / Rickie Solinger -- Sexual coercion in America / Sharon Block -- Gender, the body, and disability / Rebecca Kluchin -- Transgender representations, identities, and communities / Jen Manion -- Women, trade, and the roots of consumer societies / Serena R. Zabin -- Gender and consumption in the modern United States / Tracey Deutsch -- Women at play in popular culture / M. Alison Kibler -- Women, gender, and religion in the United States / Ann Braude -- Religion, reform, and anti-slavery / Margaret Washington -- Women's rights, suffrage, and citizenship, 1789-1820 / Ellen Carol DuBois -- Women, gender, race, and the welfare state / Rhonda Y. Williams -- US feminisms and their global connections / Judy Tzu-Chun Wu -- Sexual minorities and sexual rights / Marcia M. Gallo -- Women, gender, and conservatism in twentieth-century America / Michelle Nickerson -- Women, war, and revolution / Kate Haulman -- Women, the Civil War, and reconstruction / Hannah Rosen -- Women and World War in comparative perspective / Meghan K. Winchell -- Gender, civil rights, and the US global Cold War / Dayo F. Gore
