How to get published in the best entrepreneurship journals : a guide to steer your academic career
'This book should be required for all doctoral students studying entrepreneurship, and it will be very helpful to junior faculty in entrepreneurship and those transitioning to the field as well. Valuable insights are provided for publishing various types of articles (for example, literature reviews, qualitative research, cases, and so on) in top journals focusing on entrepreneurship, general management, and related disciplines.' - Gary Castrogiovanni, Florida Atlantic University, US. 'The wisdom and guidance provided by this stellar group of authors will be invaluable to scholars, especially those seeking to publish entrepreneurship research in top journals. The diversity of content is also exciting; for example, the inclusion of publication ethics and how to publish cases. Hopefully, this will become a much-used resource and help to reduce current high desk rejection rates.' - D. Ray Bagby, Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice. 'This book fills a critical need in the field. It is co-edited by two highly respected and accomplished entrepreneurship scholars, and the chapters are prepared by seasoned authors who provide the knowledge of how to publish research in the top entrepreneurship journals. Publication in these journals has become highly competitive, with only a small percentage of the submitted manuscripts accepted. As such, this is a highly valuable treatise for entrepreneurship scholars and PhD students. It should be required reading for all entrepreneurship researchers.' - Michael A. Hitt, Texas A&M University, US. 'Life would have been so much easier had I had the benefit of this terrific book. It provides concrete and actionable advice on all aspects of publishing in the field of entrepreneurship, and indeed other domains of management. It counsels young researchers on how to develop and formulate research questions, how to integrate them into the existing literature and to highlight their contribution, and how to build and argue sound hypotheses. It provides insight and guidance for conducting both quantitative and qualitative research. It even shows which journals might be most useful for scholars aiming to "up their game". There is no question that the sound advice given here by Audretsch, Corbett, Fayolle, Honig, Wright and other stars in the field will focus readers on the essentials so vital in today's highly competitive and ever more exacting publishing environment.' - From the foreword by Danny Miller. Competition to publish in the top j ...
1. Thinking and writing for scholarly publication in entrepreneurship / Alain Fayolle -- 2. Getting published in entrepreneurship journals / Mike Wright -- 3. The review process / Mike Wright -- 4. Getting published - and cited - in entrepreneurship : reflections on ten papers / Per Davidsson -- 5. From idea to publication : managing the research process / Robert Blackburn and Friederike Welter -- 6. Doing a research literature review / Hermann Frank and Isabella Hatak -- 7. Ethics and publishing in entrepreneurship research / Benson Honig -- 8. Moving from the periphery to the inner circle : getting published from your thesis / Sally Jones and Helle Neergaard -- 9. Do European scholars have specific problems getting published in Anglo-Saxon journals? / Dimo Dimov -- 10. How to publish qualitative entrepreneurship research in top journals / Nicole Coviello -- 11. Laying the foundations for Asia-focused research through qualitative research / David Ahlstrom and Garry Bruton -- 12. Publishing cases in entrepreneurship journals / Franz Lohrke, Melissa Baucus and Charles Carson -- 13. Getting published in entrepreneurship policy / David B. Audretsch -- 14. Positioning entrepreneurship research for general management journals / Andrew Corbett
