Entrepreneurial action, public policy, and economic outcomes
'This book addresses the central question in economic development: what institutions are conducive to productive entrepreneurship and wealth creation? By exploring the answer to this question from multiple perspectives, this volume is an invaluable resource both to scholars and policymakers concerned with human well-being.'--Christopher J. Coyne, George Mason University, US. 'Salvino, Tasto and Randolph have put together an impressive and important collection detailing public policy's influence on entrepreneurial outcomes. This book should be required reading for policy makers, who, let us hope, will heed its lessons well.'--Peter Leeson, George Mason University, US. Entrepreneurial Action, Public Policy, and Economic Outcomes examines the economics of entrepreneurship from the perspectives of productive versus unproductive entrepreneurial behavior and the role of institutions in economic outcomes. It seeks to advance the research on institutions by providing a simple framework to analyze the broader, long-term consequences of economic policies. The authors examine the relationship between economic freedom and economic outcomes and summarize empirical evidence and theory. Important topics of public debate are covered, and the economic rules of the game are carefully analyzed for clues to provide a better path toward prosperity. The book provides practical policy solutions that are based on the authors' cogent analyses which highlight the importance of institutions for economic outcomes. It also focuses specifically on the impact of public policy and provides concrete examples regarding the role of institutions. Providing a clear summary of the institutions and entrepreneurship research this comprehensive and timely book will be of great interest to anyone involved in public policy. It also offers a practical application for academic research and a rich bibliography of the scholarship and will therefore appeal to both graduate and undergraduate students
pt. I. The relationship between institutions and entrepreneurship -- pt. II. Institutions and entrepreneurship in practice
