Handbook of research on comparative human resource management
1. The meaning and value of comparative human resource management: an introduction / Elaine Farndale, Wolfgang Mayrhofer and Chris Brewster -- Part I Theoretical, conceptual and empirical issues in comparative HRM -- 2. Comparative institutional analysis and comparative HRM / Geoffrey Wood, Alexandros Psychogios, Leslie T. Szamosi and David G. Collings -- 3. Cultural perspectives on comparative HRM / B. Sebastian Reiche, Yih-teen Lee and Javier Quintanilla -- 4. Critical approaches to comparative HRM / Tuomo Peltonen and Eero Vaara -- 5. Methodological challenges for quantitative research in comparative HRM / Ingo Weller and Barry Gerhart -- 6. The anthropological comparative method as a means of analysing and solving pressing issues in comparative HRM / Fiona Moore and Mary Yoko Brannen -- Part II HRM tasks and themes -- 7. Recruitment and selection in context / Elaine Farndale, Irene Nikandrou and Leda Panayotopoulou -- ^8. Comparative total rewards policies and practices / Ihar Sahakiants, Marion Festing, Allen D. Engle Sr. and Peter J. Dowling -- 9. Comparing performance management across contexts / Paul Boselie, Elaine Farndale and Jaap Paauwe -- 10. Human resource development: national embeddedness / Olga Tregaskis and Noreen Heraty -- 11. Comparative employment relations: definitional, disciplinary and development issues / Werner Nienh user and Chris Warhurst -- 12. The psychological contract within the international and comparative HRM literature / Paul Sparrow -- 13. Positive and negative application of flexible working time arrangements: comparing the united states of america and the EU countries / Lonnie Golden, Stephen Sweet and Heejung Chung -- 14. Comparative career studies: conceptual issues and empirical results / Mila Lazarova, Wolfgang Mayrhofer, Jon Briscoe, Michael Dickmann, Douglas T. (Tim) Hall and Emma Parry -- ^15. Financial participation: the nature and causes of national variation / Andrew Pendleton, Erik Poutsma and Paul E.M. Ligthart -- 16. Comparative perspectives on diversity and equality: the challenges of gender, sexual orientation, race, ethnicity, and religion / Gwendolyn Combs, Rana Haq, Alain Klarsfeld, Lourdes Susaeta and Esperanza Suarez -- 17. Organising HRM in a comparative perspective / Julia Brandl, Anna Bos-Nehles and Ina Aust -- 18. The intersection between information technology and human resource management from a cross-national perspective: towards a research model / Huub J. M. Ru el and Tanya Bondarouk -- 19. Sustainable HRM: a comparative and international perspective / Ina Aust, Michael Muller-Camen and Erik Poutsma -- Part III Regional perspectives -- 20. HRM Practice and scholarship in North America / Susan E. Jackson, Andrea Kim and Randall S. Schuler -- 21. Revisiting the Latin American HRM model / Anabella Davila and Marta M. Elvira -- ^22. HRM in Mexico, Central America and the Caribbean / Sergio M. Madero-G omez and Miguel R. Olivas-Luj an -- 23. Comparative HRM research in South America: a call for comparative institutional approaches / Michel Hermans -- 24. HRM in Western Europe: differences without, differences within / Chris Brewster, Wolfgang Mayrhofer and Paul Sparrow -- 25. The transition states of Central and Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union / Michael J. Morley, Dana Minbaeva and Snejina Michailova -- 26. HRM in the Middle East / Pawan Budhwar and Kamel Mellahi -- 27. HRM in Northern Africa / David B. Zoogah, Elham Kamal Metwally and Tarek Tantoush -- 28. HRM in Sub-Saharan Africa: comparative perspectives / Christine Bischoff and Geoffrey Wood -- 29. HRM in the Indian subcontinent / Pawan Budhwar, Arup Varma and Manjusha Hirekhan -- 30. HRM and Asian socialist economies in transition: China, Vietnam and North Korea / Ngan Collins, Ying Zhu and Malcolm Warner -- ^31. Japan, Korea and Taiwan: issues and trends in HRM / Philippe Debroux, Wes Harry, Shigeaki Hayashi, Heh Jason Huang, Keith Jackson and Toru Kiyomiya -- 32. Comparative HRM research in Indonesia, Malaysia and the Philippines / Vivien T. Supangco and Jessica A. Los Ba nos -- 33. Styles of HRM in Australia and New Zealand / Peter Boxall, Hugh Bainbridge and Stephen Frenkel -- Part IV Concluding remarks -- 34. Future avenues for comparative HRM / Wolfgang Mayrhofer, Chris Brewster and Elaine Farndale -- Index
