World economic performance : past, present and future
'Not only is this excellent collection of papers a fitting tribute to Angus Maddison, it is also a great resource for thinking about future patterns of global economic growth both in the BRICS and the OECD based on key insights from historical experience.' (Nicholas Crafts, University of Warwick, UK). -- 'Angus Maddison may no longer be with us, but his spirit is very much alive. This collection of essays including one by Maddison himself shows how the methods he pioneered continue to shed new light on the comparative performance of nations and inspire successive generations of scholars.' (Barry Eichengreen, University of California at Berkeley, US). -- 'The distinguished editors, leading authorities in the field of comparative quantitative economic development, have gathered a stellar group of authors to address arguably the most challenging question of our time: understanding development dynamics over time and across countries. They are to be congratulated for this comprehensive, stimulating and insightful volume. It is a fitting tribute to the late Angus Maddison, an intellectual giant in the study of long-term economic development, to whom the book is dedicated.' (Hal Hill, Australian National University). -- World economic performance over the last 50 years has been spectacular. The post-war period has witnessed impressive growth rates in Western Europe and Japan, and in recent times, China and India. This new book discusses these issues and tackles topical questions such as: what are the socio-economic and institutional factors that have contributed to this impressive performance? Will China and India continue to grow at the same rate over the next two decades? What are the prospects for Japan, the US and other advanced economies? The book brings together contributions by eminent scholars including the late Angus Maddison, Professors Justin Lin, Bob Gordon, Ross Garnaut, Bart van Ark and others to provide answers to these fascinating questions. The chapters analyse the economic performance of selected countries including China, India, Japan, Indonesia and the US, as well as Western Europe, Latin America and developing countries as a group. The time period of the study is from 1850 to the present and includes forecasts to 2030.
