Handbook of research on employee voice
'This Handbook is an important contribution to knowledge about employee voice which combines a variety of approaches to the subject by drawing on different disciplines, forms and philosophies. It provides new research from a wide range of national and international experience and covers both collective and individual means of expressing the views of employees in the workplace. A feature of the Handbook is that it covers not only employment relations perspectives on the subject but also draws upon human resource management as well as organizational studies. The editors are leading authors in the subject area and have brought together both established authors and emerging scholars who have fresh approaches to the role of employee voice in organizations and society. I am sure that the Handbook will become a standard reference in the future.'--Russell Lansbury, University of Sydney, Australia. 'Given that employee voice has become more important recently across a range of disciplines, this book is very timely indeed. It brings together contributions from 50 well-known academics from different countries who provide a comprehensive account of employee voice from a variety of historical and contemporary angles. Crucially it also raises key questions for current and future research and practice. In my view this book should be compulsory reading for academics, policy-makers, practitioners and students in the subject area.'--Michael Marchington, University of Strathclyde and University of Manchester, UK. The term 'employee voice' refers to the ways and means through which employees can attempt to have a say and influence organizational issues that affect their work and the interests of managers and owners. The concept is distinct, but related to and often overlapping with issues such as participation, involvement and, more recently, engagement. This Handbook provides an up-to-date survey of the current research into employee voice, sets this research into context and sets a marker for future research in the area. The contributors are all expert in their field. The book examines the theory and history of employee voice and what voice means to various actors, including employers, middle managers, employees, unions and policy-makers. The authors observe how these actors engage in various voice processes, such as collective bargaining, grievance procedures, task-based voice, partnership and mutual gains. The efforts that have been made to date to evaluate voice across a ...
pt. I. Perspectives and theories of voice -- pt. II. Actors -- pt. III. Forms -- pt. IV. Evaluating voice
