Graphics and Multimedia for the Web with Adobe Creative Cloud : Navigating the Adobe Software Landscape
Upgrade your skills in Adobe Creative Cloud and enhance your corporate or personal website with multimedia and graphics. In this book you'll look at the latest versions of five core Adobe programs: Photoshop, Illustrator, Animate (formerly Flash), Media Encoder and Dreamweaver. As you work with each of these programs to create images, animations, audio and video you will see how each one can help you complete and finally integrate your multimedia files into a final mobile friendly website. Adding new multimedia features to your website does not have to be difficult or confusing. If you plan your route and goals correctly, along the way you will see how each software has its own use, but ultimately, how they can all work together for a common goal. This book also shows you how additional Creative Cloud software can be used with the core five programs should you want to add further interactivity
Part 1: Welcome to the Adobe Creative Cloud. Where should you begin? -- Chapter 1: Entering the Software Maze or Labyrinth -- Part 2: Working with Photoshop to Create Web Graphics and Animations -- Chapter 2: Getting Started with Photoshop -- Chapter 3: Color Choices (CMYK, RGB, Greyscale, Index) -- Chapter 4: Saving or Exporting your files or the web -- Chapter 5: Actions to Speed up File Conversion and Slicing Tools -- Chapter 6: Tools for Animation -- Chapter 7: Tools for Video -- Chapter 8: Other Miscellaneous Items in Photoshop that you can use for web design. -- Chapter 9: Putting it into practice (tutorials) -- Part 3: Working with Illustrator to Create Web Graphics -- Chapter 10: Getting Started with Illustrator -- Chapter 11: Color Choices (CMYK, RGB, Greyscale) -- Chapter 12: Saving or Exporting your files or the web -- Chapter 13: Actions for Speeding Up file conversion and Slicing tools -- Chapter 14: Tools for Animation and Video -- Chapter 15: Other Miscellaneous Items in Illustrator that you can use for web design -- Chapter 16: Putting it into practice (tutorial) -- Part 4: Working with Animate to Create Animations, Movies and HTML5 Canvas -- Chapter 17: Getting Started -- Chapter 18: Color Choices (RGB…) -- Chapter 19: Importing your Artwork -- Chapter 20: Import your Audio and Video -- Chapter 21: Working with the Timeline Panel -- Chapter 22: Saving or Exporting your files or the web -- Chapter 23: Other Miscellaneous Items in Animate that you can use for web design -- Chapter 24: Putting it into practice (tutorial) -- Part 5 - Working with Media Encoder to Create Audio and Video Files -- Chapter 25: Getting Started -- Chapter 26: Working with your RAW Files (AVI or MOV) -- Chapter 27: Working with your RAW Files and Converting them to Audio -- Chapter 28: Working with your RAW Files and Converting them to an Image Sequence -- Chapter 29: Putting it into practice (tutorial) -- Part 6 - Working with Dreamweaver. Adding Images, Animations, and Multi-Media to HTML5 Pages -- Chapter 30: Getting Started -- Chapter 31: Working with Images and Tags -- Chapter 32: Working with CSS -- Chapter 33: Working with Images for Mobile Web design -- Chapter 34: What is JavaScript? -- Chapter 35: Working with Templates, Library Items and the Assets Panel -- Chapter 36: Working with Videos, Audio and Animations -- Chapter 37: What other ways and I apply Graphics or Images in Dreamweaver to my Website? -- Chapter 38: Final testing and getting the site ready for upload. -- Chapter 39: Putting it into practice (tutorial) -- Part 7 - Further Dreamweaver integration with other Adobe Products for Web sites -- Chapter 40: What other programs that are part of Adobe Creative Cloud can I use to display my Graphics or Multi-Media online?
