Teaching human resource management : an experiential approach
This book breathes life into the teaching of Human Resource Management (HRM) by creating learning that applies the theoretical aspects of the discipline to meaningful contexts. In this way, readers will be able to better relate theoretical concepts to workplace decisions and dilemmas. The management of human resources (HR) is a critical function contributing to an organization's competitiveness in ways that are at least as important as the management of financial and capital resources. To that end, it is essential that future managers and HR specialists destined for careers in business, government and not for profit organizations develop key skills and competences in HR. Experiential learning ignites the desire to learn, while revealing the importance and impact of knowledge and skills necessary to analyze and resolve HR-related dilemmas and challenges in contemporary organizations. While many publications provide direction and advice on the teaching of organizational behavior and leadership, it is harder to find accessible books to support the teaching of HR in motivating and grounded ways. The authors include over 65 exercises, activities, and cases for the undergraduate, MBA and executive learning classrooms. HR professors and practitioners will find it of value and students will be left feeling well prepared for the kinds of situations that await them in the field of - and situations requiring expertise in - HR
1. What Is HR/Why is HR important/strategic HRM -- 2. Ethics/corporate social responsibility -- 3. Equal Employment Opportunity/Affirmative Action /diversity -- 4. Job analysis and design -- 5. Recruitment, selection and staffing -- 6. Talent development/management, training and development -- 7. Performance appraisal/management, giving feedback -- 8. Compensation and benefits -- 9. Networking, careers/mentoring, work-family conflict and integration -- 10. Labor relations/employee relations/negotiation -- 11. Disciplinary issues/organizational conflict -- 12. Safety -- 13. Organizational development and change -- 14. Global HR practices/expatriation/repatriation -- 15. Integrated or multi-concept HR activities -- Index
