Handbook of entrepreneurial cognition
Entrepreneurial cognition research is at a crossroads, where static views give way to dynamic approaches. This Handbook draws on a variety of perspectives from experts in the field of entrepreneurial cognition to highlight the key elements in a socially-situated view, where cognition is action-oriented, embodied, socially-situated, and distributed. It provides readers with some of the most up-to-date approaches to entrepreneurial cognition research and is designed to be an invaluable and timesaving companion for entrepreneurial cognition researchers. With insights from leading entrepreneurial cognition researchers the Handbook offers a comprehensive literature review of the field. Readers seeking to better understand and participate in some of the most up-to-date approaches to entrepreneurial cognition research will find this Handbook to be especially helpful in their research. Established scholars who are new to the research area will also be interested in this book. University libraries with research-focused business schools will also benefit from this Handbook
1. Thinking about ... cognition ... and its central role in entrepreneurship : confessions of a "reformed" behaviorist / Robert A. Baron -- 2. Linking achievement motivation to intentions, goals and entrepreneurial behaviors / Alan L. Carsrud and Malin Brännback -- 3. Toward a taxonomy of entrepreneurs' behavior / Barbara Bird -- 4. Entrepreneurial self-regulation : consciousness and cognition / Brandon Randolph-Seng, Wallace A. Williams, Jr. and Mario Hayek -- 5. Feeling and thinking : the role of affect in entrepreneurial cognition / Maw-Der Foo, Charles Y. Murnieks and Elsa T. Chan -- 6. Exploring the affective and cognitive dynamics of entrepreneurship across time and planes of influence / Denis A. Grégoire -- 7. Cultural context, passion, and self-efficacy : do entrepreneurs operate on different "planets"? / Mateja Drnovsek, Alenka Slavec and Melissa S. Cardon -- 8. Lessons from the neural foundation of entrepreneurial cognition : the case of emotion and motivation / David A. Baucus, Melissa S. Baucus and Ronald K. Mitchell -- 9. Entrepreneurial cognition and social cognitive neuroscience / Jeffery S. Mcmullen, Matthew S. Wood and Leslie E. Palich -- 10. The infrastructure of entrepreneurial learning / Daniel P. Forbes -- 11. How language shapes thought : new vistas for entrepreneurship research / Jean S. Clarke and Joep P. Cornelissen -- 12. Thinking big from the start : an essay on entrepreneurial growth cognitions / Andrew C. Corbett -- 13. Simulating socially situated cognition in exchange creation / Ronald K. Mitchell ... [et al.] -- 14. The whole deal : models, metaphors and mechanisms in entrepreneurial cognition / Saras D. Sarasvathy
