The economics of corporate governance and mergers
ch. 1. The economics of corporate governance and mergers / Klaus Gugler and B. Burcin Yurtoglu -- ch. 2. Legal origin, shareholder protection and the stock market : new challenges from time series analysis / Sonja Fagernäs, Prabirjit Sarkar and Ajit Singh -- ch. 3. Corporate governance and the public interest : the way forward / J. Robert Branston, Keith Cowling and Roger Sugden -- ch. 4. Corporate boards of directors : a precautionary perspective / Oliver E. Williamson -- ch. 5. Corporate governance : a review of the role of banks / Hans Degryse, Steven Ongena and Günseli Tümer-Alkan -- ch. 6. Competition between profit seekers and non-profit firms : the case of German banking / Manfred Neumann, Richard Reichel and Jürgen Weigand -- ch. 7. Mergers : an overview / Stephen Martin -- ch. 8. A new retrospective on mergers / F.M. Scherer -- ch. 9. Mergers and efficiency : theory, empirical evidence, and competition policy in Japan / Hiroyuki Odagiri -- ch. 10. UK corporate governance and takeover performance / Andy Cosh, Paul Guest and Alan Hughes -- ch. 11. Mergers and alliances in pharmaceuticals : effects on innovation and r&d productivity / Henry Grabowski and Margaret Kyle -- ch. 12. Endogenous horizontal mergers in dynamic markets / Engelbert J. Dockner, Andrea Gaunersdorfer and Steffen Jørgensen -- ch. 13. Vertical mergers in markets with network effects / Gerhard Clemenz -- ch. 14. The impact of competition on macroeconomic performance / Karl Aiginger
This book provides an insightful view of major issues in the economics of corporate governance (CG) and mergers. It presents a systematic update on the developments in the two fields during the last decade, as well as highlighting the neglected topics in CG research, such as the role of boards, CG and public interest and the relation of CG to mergers. Two important conclusions can be drawn from this book: the first is that corporate governance systems that better align shareholders' and managers' interests lead to better corporate performance; second, there is an important relationship between CG structures and the quality of firm decision-making, one of the most important being the decision to merge or take over another firm
