Cuba's forgotten decade : how the 1970s shaped the revolution
Cuba's Forgotten Decade provides a comprehensive assessment of the 1970s that challenges prevailing interpretations of the decade as simply a period of "Sovietization" characterized by widespread bureaucratization, institutionalization, and adherence to Soviet orthodoxy. Drawing from multidisciplinary perspectives and exploring a range of areas--including politics, international relations, culture, education, and healthcare--the contributing authors demonstrate that the 1970s were a time of intense transformation that provided pivotal to the development of the Revolution. Indeed, many of the ideas, approaches, policies, and legislation developed and tested during this decade maintain a very visible legacy in contemporary Cuba. In highlighting the complexity of the 1970s, this volume contributes to a greater understanding of the Cuban Revolution and how the country has faced the challenges of the twenty-first century--back cover
Raul's decade?, or, the first swing of the pendulum? / Antoni Kapcia -- Havana and Moscow in the 1970s : 'Sovietization' in an era of détente / Mervyn Bain -- David rising : Cuba and its northern Goliath in the 1970s / H. Michael Erisman -- Canada-Cuba relations in the 1970s / John M. Kirk -- Militarized by Moscow? : re-examining Soviet influence on Cuba in the 1970s / Anna Clayfield -- No secret cure : why the 1970s hold the mystery to Cuba's health paradox / Robert Huish -- Sexual education in the 1970s : a health-based approach / Emily J. Kirk -- Cuban women and the state : women's lives in the 1970s and the new reproductive bargain / Hope Bastian Martínez -- The 'three Ps' (perfecting, professionalization, and pragmatism) and their limitations for understanding Cuban education in the 1970s / Rosi Smith -- Is class race, and race class? : blacks, the Cuban Revolution, and the 1970s / Isaac Saney -- Black skin, red masks? : decolonization and literature in 1970s Cuba / Par Kumaraswami -- Utopian cultural construction: Cuban cultural organization in the 1970s / Isabel Story -- Cinema and culture in the 1970s : the art of autonomy / Guy Baron -- ¿Seremos (otra vez) como el Ché? : Angola as an 'alternative narrative' to Cuba in the 1970s / Raquel Ribeiro -- Within the revolution, everyone : Cuba, youth, and interrogating the 1970s paradigm / Anne Luke
