Psychological Perspectives on Risk and Risk Analysis : Theory, Models, and Applications
This authoritative collection goes beyond economic statistics and probability data to offer a robust psychological understanding of risk perception and risk taking behavior. Expert contributors examine various risk domains in life, and pinpoint cognitive, emotional, and personality factors contributing to individual differences in risk taking as well as the many nuances social demographics (e.g., culture, gender) bring to risk decisions. Coverage takes competing theories and studies into account to identify mechanisms involved in processing and acting on uncertainty. And implications and applications are demonstrated in varied fields, from updated risk models for the insurance sector to improved risk communication in health services to considering risk perception in policy decisions. A sampling of the topics: Personality and risk: beyond daredevils-risk taking from a temperament perspective. Cognitive, developmental, and neurobiological aspects of risk judgments. The group effect: social influences on risk identification, analysis, and decision-making. Cognitive architectures as a scaffolding for risky choice models. Improving understanding of health-relevant numerical information. Risk culture as a framework for improving competence in risk management. Psychological Perspectives on Risk and Risk Analysis will be of great interest to researchers in and outside of psychology, including decision-making experts and behavioral economists. Additionally, this volume will appeal to practitioners who often have to make risky decisions, such as managers and physicians. Chapter 9 of this book is available open access under a CC BY 4.0 license at link.springer.com
Part I: Individual Differences in Risk Perception and Risk Taking Behavior -- Chapter 1: Personality and Risk: Beyond Daredevils - Risk Taking from a Temperament Perspective -- Chapter 2: Individual Differences in the Judgment of Risks: Sociodemographic Characteristics, Cultural Orientation, and Level of Expertise -- Chapter 3: Differences in Risk Perception Between Hazards and Between Individuals -- Part II: Cognitive, Emotional and Social Aspects Perspectives on Risk -- Chapter 4: Cognitive, Developmental, and Neurobiological Aspects of Risk Judgments -- Chapter 5: Emotional Aspects of Risk Perceptions -- Chapter 6: The Group Effect: Social Influences on Risk Identification, Analysis, and Decision Making -- Part III: Modeling Decision Making under Risk -- Chapter 7: The Use of Heuristics in Decision Making under Risk and Uncertainty -- Chapter 8: Behavioral Models of Decision Making under Risk -- Chapter 9: Cognitive Architectures as a Scaffolding for Risky Choice Models -- Chapter 10: Risk Culture: An Alternative Approach to Handling Risks -- Part IV: Communicating Risks to the Public -- Chapter 11: Communicating Risks: Principles and Challenges -- Chapter 12: Improving Understanding of Health-Relevant Numerical Information -- Chapter 13: Developing Health Risk Communications: Four Lessons Learned -- Part V: Practical Implications for Industry, Policy & Research -- Chapter 14: Measuring Subjective Risk Estimates -- Chapter 15: Risk and Uncertainty in the Insurance Industry -- Chapter 16: Implications for Risk Governance
