Materials technology gaps in metal additive manufacturing
Metal additive manufacturing (MAM) is an exciting emergent technology that offers the possibility of democratizing metal manufacturing worldwide. Many believe it has the ability to revolutionize product manufacture on a global scale.MAM will require a considerable design shift for manufacturers and, hence, will disrupt conventional thinking and require adaptation. Visionaries in the mobility industry can see the transformative possibilities after materials considerations are addressed. Materials Technology Gaps in Metal Additive Manufacturing introduces the reader to various opportunities and relationships in the study of material technologies involved in metal- based additive manufacturing of aerospace and automotive parts. Everything starts and ends with the material feedstock, and the intermediate processes that affect a particular metal. Each of the choices in the complex integrated MAM system impacts final- part properties.Edited by Dr. Cynthia K. Waters, from North Carolina A&T State University, Materials Technology Gaps in Metal Additive Manufacturing is a highly curated collection of ten seminal SAE International papers. They discuss the various technologies involved in MAM, and draw attention to the materials needs in each of the situations addressed. The main topics included in Materials Technology Gaps in Metal Additive Manufacturing are:Process design and material modelingMetal powder selection and studyAdditive processing parameters effect on materials properties As more interdependencies of materials properties and possible manufacturing processes evolve (compatibility interdependence), questions if the specific manufacturing process is capable to create the required geometry will also arise. Materials Technology Gaps in Metal Additive Manufacturing brings innovative ways to address these and other challenges that are always present in the adoption of novel technologies.
Introduces the reader to various opportunities and relationships in the study of material technologies involved in metal- based additive manufacturing of aerospace and automotive parts. Everything starts and ends with the material feedstock, and the intermediate processes that affect a particular metal. Each of the choices in the complex integrated MAM system impacts final-part properties.
