Higher education challenges for migrant and refugee students in a global world
"Higher Education Challenges for Migrant and Refugee Students in a Global World informs readers of theory, policy, and practice of refugee and migrant equitable access to higher education, especially indicating how policy makes, educational leaders and practitioners can support refugees, asylum seekers, and other migrants' inclusion in higher education institutions in the global world. The chapters composing each section of this book constitute a compilation of research addressing experience relating to the overwhelming flow of refugee and asylum seekers in various higher education systems. There are 40+ contributions from authors located in 11 countries: Austria, Canada, Czechia, Germany, Holland, Iceland, Israel, Italy, Kenya, Turkey, Palestine, and the United States, dealing with the topics of refugees and immigrants in higher education in different world regions, including Africa, the Middle East, Europe and North America" --
Introduction: Higher Education Challenges for Migrant and Refugee Students in a Global World / Khalid Arar, Kussai Haj-Yehia, David B. Ross, and Yasar Kondakci -- SECTION ONE: Higher Education Theory, Policy, and Integration, of Migrants and Refugees -- Refugees in Higher Education / Iris Ben David-Hadar -- Higher Education as an Instrument of Social Inclusion for Displaced Students and Refugees / Carol A. Kochhar-Bryant -- In the United States, Is There a Home and Access to Higher Education for Migrants, Immigrants, and Refugees? / Duncan Waite and Jason R. Swisher -- Effective Leadership: U.S. Educational Institutions Can Accommodate Immigrants, Refugees, and Displaced Students / Ann Toler Hilliard -- North American Policy and Practice: Refugee Qualifications and Access to Higher Education / Bryce Loo -- From Brain Drain to Return Migration and Brian Gain in Africa: A Three-Level Theoretical Analysis / Valerie MOMO -- SECTION TWO: Addressing the Crisis of Higher Education for Refugee and Immigrant Students -- Not Quite a Crisis but a Coping Challenge: How Berlin Universities Responded to the 2015-2016 Refugee Influx / Bernhard Streitwieser, Maria Anne Schmidt, Lukas Brueck, and Katharina Marlen Gläsener -- The Influence of the "Trump Effect" on Latina Immigrant Student Aspirations and Expectations for STEM Achievement / Daniel D. Liou, Tami Coronella, Raquel Fong, and Lindsay Romasanta -- Student Immigrants and NGO Activists in the Same Boat / Terezie Vávrová and Dana Moree -- Refugees in the German Tertiary Sector: Mapping Service Gaps at Research Universities / Lisa Unangst and Hans de Wit -- Getting a "Feel for the Game": How Do (Im)Migrant Students in Iceland Experience Higher Education and Gain Access to the Field? / Brynja Elisabeth Halldórsdóttir and Jón Ingvar Kjaran -- Migrants, Refugees, and Higher Education in Turkey / Yasar Kondakci and Ozgur Onen -- SECTION THREE: Special Practical Cases of Higher Education Accessibility for Migrants and Refugees -- Circular Migration and the Former USSR: Experiences and Conflicts of Graduates from the Palestinian Arab Minority in Israel / Khalid Arar, Kussai Haj-Yehia, Fadiya Ibrahim, and Muhammad Khalaily -- Southeast Asian and Pacific Islander Students in STEM Programs: Examining Student-Faculty Interactions / Maricris E. Orama and David B. Ross -- Living, Learning, and Teaching in a Refugee Camp: Biographies of Perseverance / Jennifer W. Khamasi, Cynthia C. Nicol, Samson N. Madera, and Karen Meyer -- Re-Accessing Higher Education: Regulations and Challenges for Refugees in Austria and Turkey / Seyda Subasi, Michelle Proyer, and Tatjana Atanasoska -- Higher Education, Hospitality, and Onward Movement: Eritrean University Students and Ethiopian Refugee Policy / Jennifer Riggan and Amanda Poole   -- Higher Education Experiences of a Female Syrian Refugee: Aisha's Student Journey / Zeynel Amaç, Durmus Burak, and Muhammet Ruhat Yasar -- Arab World Refugee Challenges in Higher Education: The Case of Syrian Refugee Students in Jordan / Kussai Haj-Yehia and Khalid Arar -- Conclusion and What Next? / Khalid Arar, Kussai Haj-Yehia, David B. Ross, and Yasar Kondakci
