Trade and inequality
Elhanan Helpman, Oleg Itskhoki, Stephen Redding (2010), 'Inequality and Unemployment in a Global Economy' -- Pol Antràs, Luis Garicano and Esteban Rossi-Hansberg (2006), 'Offshoring in a Knowledge Economy' -- Arnaud Costinot, Jonathan Vogel and Su Wang (2012), 'Global Supply Chains and Wage Inequality'
This volume brings together the most influential theoretical and empirical contributions to the topic of trade and inequality from recent years. Segregating it into four key areas, the collection forms a comprehensive study of the subject, targeted at academic readers familiar with the main trade models and empirical methods used in economics. The first two parts cover empirical evidence on trade and inequality in developed and developing countries, while the third and fourth sections confront transition dynamics following trade liberalization and new theoretical contributions inspired by the previously-discussed empirical evidence, respectively. Presented with an extensive original introduction by the editor, Trade and Inequality will be an invaluable tool in the study of this field to advanced undergraduate students, graduate students and faculty alike
Recommended readings (Machine generated): Adrian Wood (1995), 'How Trade Hurt Unskilled Workers' -- Amit Khandelwal (2010), 'The Long and Short (of) Quality Ladders' -- David H. Autor, David Dorn and Gordon H. Hanson (2013), 'The China Syndrome: Local Labor Market Effects of Import Competition in the United States' -- Robert C. Feenstra and Gordon H. Hanson (1999), 'The Impact of Outsourcing and High-Technology Capital on Wages: Estimates for the United States, 1979-1990' -- David Hummels, Rasmus Jørgensen, Jakob Munch and Chong Xiang (2014), 'The Wage Effects of Offshoring: Evidence from Danish Matched Worker-Firm Data' -- Maarten Goos, Alan Manning and Anna Salomons (2014), 'Explaining Job Polarization: Routine-Biased Technological Change and Offshoring' -- Orazio Attanasio, Pinelopi K. Goldberg and Nina Pavcnik (2004), 'Trade Reforms and Wage Inequality in Colombia' -- Guido G. Porto (2006), 'Using Survey Data to Assess the Distributional Effects of Trade Policy' -- Pinelopi Koujianou Goldberg and Nina Pavcnik (2005), 'Trade, Wages, and the Political Economy of Trade Protection: Evidence from the Colombian Trade Reforms' -- Petia Topalova (2010), 'Factor Immobility and Regional Impacts of Trade Liberalization: Evidence on Poverty from India' -- Brian K. Kovak (2013), 'Regional Effects of Trade Reform: What Is the Correct Measure of Liberalization?' -- Pinelopi Koujianou Goldberg and Nina Pavcnik (2003), 'The Response of the Informal Sector to Trade Liberalization' -- Eric A. Verhoogen (2008), 'Trade, Quality Upgrading and Wage Inequality in the Mexican Manufacturing Sector' -- Irene Brambilla, Daniel Lederman and Guido Porto (2012), 'Exports, Export Destinations, and Skills' -- Brian McCaig (2011), 'Exporting Out of Poverty: Provincial Poverty in Vietnam and U.S. Market Access' -- Erhan Artuç, Shubham Chaudhuri and John McLaren (2010), 'Trade Shocks and Labor Adjustment: A Structural Empirical Approach' -- Rafael Dix-Carneiro (2014), 'Trade Liberalization and Labor Market Dynamics' -- Gueorgui Kambourov (2009), 'Labour Market Regulations and the Sectoral Reallocation of Workers: The Case of Trade Reforms' -- Arnaud Costinot and Jonathan Vogel (2010), 'Matching and Inequality in the World Economy'
