Handbook of research on family business
Introduction : the business of researching family enterprises / Panikkos Zata Poutziouris, Kosmas X. Smyrnios and Sabine B. Klein -- Frontiers of family business -- Navigating the family business education maze / Frank Hoy and Pramodita Sharma -- An overview of the field of family business studies : current status and directions for the future / Pramodita Sharma -- Family businesses' contribution to the US economy : a closer look / Joseph H. Astrachan and Melissa Carey Shanker -- Theorizing family businesses and business families -- A unified systems perspective of family firm performance / Timothy Habbershon, Mary Williams, and Ian C. MacMillan -- The family's dynamic role within family business entrepreneurship / Ramona K. Z. Heck, Sharon M. Danes, Margaret A. Fitzgerald, George W. Haynes, Cynthia R. Jasper, Holly L. Schrank, Kathryn Stafford, and Mary Winter -- Critical leader relationships in family firms / Nigel Nicholson and Åsa Björnberg -- Business family as a team : underlying force for sustained competitive advantage / Lorraine M. Uhlaner -- Internal factors of family business performance : an integrated theoretical model / Alberto Gimeno Sandig, Gaston J. Labadie, Willem Saris, and Xavier Mendoza Mayordomo -- Family business research. : metrics and methodologies -- The F-PEC scale of family influence : a proposal for solving the family business definition problem / Joseph H. Astrachan, Sabine Klein and Kosmas X. Smyrnios -- Identification of different types of private family firms / Paul Westhead and Carole Howorth -- From vision to variables : a scorecard to continue the professionalization of a family firm / Ken Moores and Justin Craig -- Working with families in business : a content validity study of the Aspen Family business inventory / Sandra L. Moncrief-Stuart, Joe Paul, and Justin Craig -- Family business themes in focus -- Founder-successor's transition : a model of coherent value transmission paths / Ercilia Garcia-Álvarez and Jordi López-Sintas -- Understanding strategizing in the family business context / Annika Hall, Leif Melin, and Mattias Nordqvist -- The professionalization of family firms : theory and practice / Lucrezia Songini -- Formulating, implementing and maintaining family protocols / Miguel Angel Gallo and Salvatore Tomaselli -- Generic models for family business boards of directors / Joseph H. Astrachan, Andrew Keyt, Suzanne Lane, and Kristi McMillan -- Effective knowledge transfer in family firms / Rosa Nelly Trevinyo-Rodriguez and Josep Tàpies -- Feuding families : the management of conflict in family firms / Franz W. Kellermanns and Kimberly A. Eddleston -- Family business succession -- Lost in time : intergenerational succession, change and failure in family business / Danny Miller, Lloyd Steier, and Isabelle Le Breton-Miller -- Towards a business family dynasty : a lifelong, continuing process / Johan Lambrecht and Rik Donckels -- Using the strategic planning process as a next-generation training tool in family business / Pietro Mazzola, Gaia Marchisio and Joseph H. Astrachan -- An integrated framework for testing the success of the family business succession process according to gender specificity / Vassilios D. Pyromalis, George S. Vozikis, Theodoros A. Kalkanteras, Michaela E. Rogdaki and George P. Sigalas -- Family business performance : global and trans-cultural issues -- Internationalization of family business through strategic alliances : an exploratory study / Kristin Cappuyns -- Family and cultural forces : shaping entrepreneurship and SME development in China / David Pistrui, Wilfred V. Huang, Harold P. Welsch, and Zhao Jing -- Board of directors in Italian public family-controlled companies / Guido Corbetta and Alessandro Minichilli -- Family-firm relations in Italian SMEs: ownership and governance issues in a double-fold theoretical perspective / Luca Gnan and Daniela Montemerlo -- Longevity of Japanese firms / Toshio Goto -- Family business finance -- Family firms and financial behaviour : how family shareholder preferences influence firms' financing / Myriam Lyagoubi -- The structure and performance of the UK family business PLC economy / Panikkos Zata Poutziouris -- Ownership structure and firm performance : evidence from Spanish family firms / Susana Menéndez-Requejo -- Family ownership, corporate governance and firm value : evidence from the Spanish market / Maria Sacristán Navarro and Silvia Gmez Ansón -- Epilogue : theory building and the survival of family firms : four promising research directions / Shaker A. Zahra, Sabine B. Klein and Joseph H. Astrachan
The Handbook of Research on Family Business provides a comprehensive first port of call for those wishing to survey progress in the theory and practice of family business research. In response to the extensive growth of family business as a topic of academic inquiry, the principal objective of the Handbook is to provide an authoritative and scholarly overview of current thinking in this multidisciplinary field
