Inside Solid State Drives (SSDs)
Dedication Page -- Preface -- Preface to the 2nd edition -- Foreword -- Acknowledgements -- About the editors -- 1. SSD Architecture and PCI Express interface -- 2. SAS and SATA SSDs -- 3. Hybrid Storage Systems -- 4. 2D NAND Flash technology -- 5. 3D NAND Flash memories (new chapter) -- 6. NAND Flash design -- 7. Solid State Drives: memory driven design methodologies for optimal performance (new chapter) -- 8. SSD Reliability Assessment and Improvement -- 9. Reliability Issues in Flash-Memory-Based Solid-State Drives: Experimental Analysis, Mitigation, Recovery (new chapter) -- 10. Efficient wear leveling in NAND Flash memory. -11. BCH Codes for Solid-State-Drives -- 12. Low-Density Parity-Check (LDPC) codes.-13. Protecting SSD data against attacks -- Index
The revised second edition of this respected text provides a state-of-the-art overview of the main topics relating to solid state drives (SSDs), covering NAND flash memories, memory controllers (including booth hardware and software), I/O interfaces (PCIe/SAS/SATA), reliability, error correction codes (BCH and LDPC), encryption, flash signal processing and hybrid storage. Updated throughout to include all recent work in the field, significant changes for the new edition include: A new chapter on flash memory errors and data recovery procedures in SSDs for reliability and lifetime improvement Updated coverage of SSD Architecture and PCI Express Interfaces moving from PCIe Gen3 to PCIe Gen4 and including a section on NVMe over fabric (NVMf) An additional section on 3D flash memories An update on standard reliability procedures for SSDs Expanded coverage of BCH for SSDs, with a specific section on detection A new section on non-binary Low-Density Parity-Check (LDPC) codes, the most recent advancement in the field A description of randomization in the protection of SSD data against attacks, particularly relevant to 3D architectures The SSD market is booming, with many industries placing a huge effort in this space, spending billions of dollars in R&D and product development. Moreover, flash manufacturers are now moving to 3D architectures, thus enabling an even higher level of storage capacity. This book takes the reader through the fundamentals and brings them up to speed with the most recent developments in the field, and is suitable for advanced students, researchers and engineers alike
