Handbook of organizational routines
The past, present and future of organizational routines / Markus C. Becker -- The concept of a routine / Geoffrey M. Hodgson -- Organizational routines in political science / Timothy J. McKeown -- Routines, "going concerns" and innovation : towards an evolutionary economic sociology / Marc J. Ventresca, William N. Kaghan -- Organizational routines in accounting / John Burns, Robert W. Scapens -- Problem solving and governance in the capability-based view of the firm : the roles and theoretical representations of organizational routines / Giovanni Dosi, Marco Faillo, Luigi Marengo -- Organizational routines in evolutionary theory / Thorbjørn Knudsen -- Organizational routines and organizational learning / Anne S. Miner, Michael P. Ciuchta, Yan Gong -- Organizational routines and performance feedback / Henrich. R. Greve -- Routines and routinization : an exploration of some micro-cognitive foundations / Nathalie Lazaric -- Staying on track : a voyage to the internal mechanisms of routine reproduction / Martin Schulz -- The role of teams and communities in the emergence of organizational routines / Patrick Cohendet, Patrick Llerena -- Issues in empirical field studies of organizational routines / Brian T. Pentland, Martha S. Feldman -- Conducting experimental research on organizational routines / Alessandro Narduzzo, Massimo Warglien
This cutting-edge, multidisciplinary Handbook comprises specially commissioned contributions surveying state-of-the-art research on the concept of organizational routines. An authoritative overview of the concept of organizational routines and its contributions to our understanding of organizations is presented. To identify those contributions, the role of organizational routines in such processes as organizational learning, performance feedback, and organizational memory is discussed. To identify how the concept can contribute to different disciplinary fields, the expert authors review applications across a range of fields including political science, sociology, and accounting
