Teaching entrepreneurship : a practice-based approach
pt. I. The practices of entrepreneurship education : the theory -- pt. II. The practices of entrepreneurship education : the application
'Of course, entrepreneurship can be taught, and this books shows how. Using scholarly research as the foundation, the authors have crafted a set of practices to foster entrepreneurial thinking that should be incorporated in all courses across the entire curriculum.'--Tina Seelig, Stanford University, US. 'Practice makes perfect and Babson professors Neck, Greene and Brush lead the way for global management education's thirst for excellence in entrepreneurship education. Teaching Entrepreneurship is an excellent read and detailed guide for creating a strong program that inspires innovation and entrepreneurial strategies for business academics and practitioners.'--John Fernandes, President and Chief Executive Officer, AACSB International. 'Teaching Entrepreneurship further validates how thoroughly Heidi, Patricia, and Candida understand the future of this incredibly vital field. The idea that aspiring entrepreneurs and their professors should be instructed in a method that increases their emotional intelligence and their business acumen is extraordinary. This is the book that the faculty at Paul Quinn College and I have been waiting for. That applause you hear in the background is our current and future students and the lives they will change through this version of entrepreneurship.'--Michael J. Sorrell, President, Paul Quinn College, Dallas, US. 'Teaching entrepreneurship is really a challenge to educators around the world. Although much has been written about this topic, we are still searching for new methods and practical tools. This book is an important contribution to this issue, and I am sure that it will help educators to improve their classes and to engage their students.'--Tales Andreassi, FGV-EAESP, São Paulo, Brazil. 'The arguments presented in this book will undoubtedly contribute significantly to increasing the legitimacy of entrepreneurship education as a practice-based method. This is partly due to the renowned reputations of the three authors, but more so because the contents speak so clearly to various forms of experiential education common within our field of practice. The care taken to assemble these arguments should be matched by the reader's deep consideration of how these splendid ideas can be applied by every individual entrepreneurship educator. Every dedicated educator will benefit from this book.'--Colin Jones, University of Tasmania, Australia. Teaching Entrepreneurship moves entrepreneurship education from the traditional proces ...
