Money, financial instability and stabilization policy
Money, Financial Instability and Stabilization Policy consists of original articles by leading Post Keynesians, Kaleckians and other heterodox economists from the developed and developing world. Post Keynesian literature has long been associated with the study of money, financial markets and financial instability. Indeed, this is perhaps the area to which Post Keynesians have made the greatest contributions. The authors to this volume present an overview of the latest research on monetary theory and policy, financial markets, and financial instability coming out of the Post Keynesian school of thought. They provide an indication of the wide-ranging interests and of the truly international scope of Post Keynesian research. The first half of the volume is theoretical, while the second half includes papers that are either empirical or more focused on specific concerns
1. Negative net resource transfers as a Minskyian hedge profile and the stability of the international financial system / Jan A. Kregel -- 2. Monetary and social relationships / Charles A.E. Goodhart -- 3. System dynamics of interest rate effects on aggregate demand / Linwood Tauheed and L. Randall Wray -- 4. Credibility versus confidence in monetary policy / Edwin le Heron and Emmanuel Carre -- 5. Understanding the link among uncertainty, instability and institutions, and the need for stabilization policies : towards a synthesis between Post Keynesian and institutional economics / Slim Thabet -- 6. Saving, asset-price inflation, and debt-induced deflation / Michael Hudson -- 7. Unit roots in macroeconomic time series and stabilization policies : a Post Keynesian interpretation / Gilberto A. Libanio -- 8. Mark-up determinants and effectiveness of open market operations in an oligopsonistic banking sector : the Mexican case / Noemí Levy and Guadalupe Mántey -- 9. The Washington Consensus and (non-) development / Hansjörg Herr and Jan Priewe -- 10. Competition, low profit margin, low inflation and economic stagnation / Arturo Huerta -- 11. Floundering after floating? : exchange rate management and the Mexican Stock Market, 1995-2001 / Jesús Muñoz and P. Nicholas Snowden -- 12. The evolution of financial systems : the development of the new member states of the European Union / Elisabeth Springler
