Plasma surface metallurgy : with double glow discharge technology-Xu-Tec process
This book provides a comprehensive introduction to and technical description of a unique patented surface-modification technology: plasma surface metallurgy with double-glow discharge plasma process, known as the Xu-Tec process. As such it promotes further attention and interest in scientific research and engineering development in this area, as well as industrial utilization and product commercialization. The Xu-Tec process has opened up a new material engineering field of “Plasma Surface Metallurgy”. This surface-modification process can transform many low-grade and low-cost industrial engineering materials into “gold” materials with a high value and high grade or special functions. This improved material can be widely used in industrial production to improve the surface performance and quality of mechanical parts and manufacturing products, and to conserve expensive alloying elements for the benefit of all mankind. “This book will be valuable to those in the general area of surface metallurgy. The substantial description of the Xu-Tec process is very important and should assist in expanding the use of this superior technique. The in-depth explanation of glow discharges and their use in general will also serve as a valuable reference in the field.” James E. Thompson, Prof. Fellow of the IEEE Dean of Engineering Emeritus University of Missouri, Columbia, Missouri, USA November, 2016   "A BREAKTHROUGH IN MAKING METAL TOUGHER". ---- SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY Business Week, July 24, 1989   “NOVEL SURFACE ALLOYING PROCESS” --- THE LEADING EDGE TECHNOLOGY WORDWIDE Materials and Processing Report, Dec. 1987
This book provides a comprehensive introduction to and technical description of a unique patented surface-modification technology: plasma surface metallurgy with double-glow discharge plasma process, known as the Xu-Tec process. As such it promotes further attention and interest in scientific research and engineering development in this area, as well as industrial utilization and product commercialization.The Xu-Tec process has opened up a new material engineering field of 'Plasma Surface Metallurgy'. This surface-modification process can transform many low-grade and low-cost industrial engineering materials into 'gold' materials with a high value and high grade or special functions. This improved material can be widely used in industrial production to improve the surface performance and quality of mechanical parts and manufacturing products, and to conserve expensive alloying elements for the benefit of all mankind.'This book will be valuable to those in the general area of surface metallurgy. The substantial description of the Xu-Tec process is very important and should assist in expanding the use of this superior technique. The in-depth explanation of glow discharges and their use in general will also serve as a valuable reference in the field.'James E. Thompson, Prof.Fellow of the IEEEDean of Engineering EmeritusUniversity of Missouri, Columbia, Missouri, USANovember, 2016 'A BREAKTHROUGH IN MAKING METAL TOUGHER'.---- SCIENCE  TECHNOLOGYBusiness Week, July 24, 1989 'NOVEL SURFACE ALLOYING PROCESS'--- THE LEADING EDGE TECHNOLOGY WORDWIDEMaterials and Processing Report, Dec. 1987 Prof. David Zhong Xu is the founding director of the Institute of Surface Engineering at Taiyuan University of Technology, and of the Institute of Plasma Surface Engineering at Nanjing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics, China. He invented the Double Glow Plasma Surface Metallurgy Technology, which was granted an USA patent (Patent No.: US4520268) in 1985. His work in plasma surface metallurgy was recognized as one of the 'key technology' in China National 863 projects in 1994, and has been supported by research funds from the US 'Energy Related Invention Program' and 'Small Business Innovation Research Program'. His accomplishments in this area have been granted two China National Invention Awards.  Through his 60-year academic and research career, he has trained over 100 PhD and MSc students. He was a distinguished professor at Nanjing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics, 2004-2010 and the University of Science and Technology Beijing, 1995 -2006.Dr. Frank Fulin Xiong is a seasonal engineer in Silicon Valley, USA.  He completed his PhD research program at California Institute of Technology, focusing on ion beam modification of solid materials. He then became a senior research fellow at the Applied Science Lab., Harvard University, and the Materials Research Center, Northwestern University, continuing his research and development of the surface physical study of materials thin film processing.  Later, at the 3M Company Center Research Laboratory, Frank developed hard coatings, such as Plasma Enhanced CVD diamond thin films. At that time, he met Prof. Xu for technical information exchange.  Since 1998, in the Silicon Valley, Dr. Xiong has been a senior engineering manager at IBM, SanDisk, Miradia and Invensensein working in semiconductor material processing, device fabrication and electronic system and product integration.  He is a co-founder and CTO at Heaptech Engineering, Inc. leading a team on the technological development of renewable energy and clean-tech products.
