Research handbook on small business social responsibility : global perspectives
14. The tree of knowledge: sustainable management practices for a collaborative ecosystem amongst small to medium enterprises15. Enabling sustainability in SMEs through action research; 16. Case study: scaling up social responsibility among small foundry clusters in India; 17. Case study: clustering â#x80;#x93; a way to create shared value? A case study of a food and drink cluster organisation in England; 18. Case study: human capital and environmental engagement of SMEs in Pakistan â#x80;#x93; a comparative analysis of the leather industry
The vast majority of businesses globally are small. If business is to be socially responsible, we need to go beyond the westernised concept of 'Corporate Social Responsibility', to develop 'Small Business Social Responsibility'. This agenda-setting Research Handbook on Small Business Social Responsibility includes leading research from around the world, including developed and developing country contexts. It provides a foundation for the further development of small business social responsibility as a scholarly subject and crucially important practice and policy field
5. Adding a small business perspective to research on working conditions in global production networks6. SME resources and capabilities for sustainability performance: a framework for emerging economies; 7. Small business social responsibility and sustainability metrics: a focus on environmental performance measurement and waste; PART III: RESPONSIBLE FINANCE; 8. Financial development and the efficiency of microfinance institutions; 9. Corporate sustainability and social responsibility of smallholder farmers: implications for agriculture financing
Front Matter; Copyright; Contents; List of contributors; Foreword; Acknowledgements; 1. Introduction; PART I: CONTEXT; 2. National context matters: influence of National Business System on social enterprises in Scotland and India; 3. Industry matters: comparative study of Vietnamâ#x80;#x99;s SME managers and workers on meaning and impacts of CSR in two manufacturing sectors; 4. Cluster matters: corporate social responsibility and micro, small and medium-sized enterprise clusters in India; PART II: SUPPLY CHAINS
10. Financial aggregation of risks for MSMEs in developing economies: a conceptual framework of financia laggregation and microinsurance effectsPART IV: SOCIAL ENTERPRISE; 11. Exploring the global potential of social entrepreneurship and small business social responsibility for tackling societal value creation; 12. Social entrepreneurship and CSR theory: insights, application and value; 13. Hybrid organisations and models of social enterprise in Ghana and Bangladesh; PART V: ENGAGED RESEARCH AND CASE STUDIES
