Research companion to ethical behavior in organizations : constructs and measures
'This Companion offers comprehensive coverage of the dynamics of ethical behavior in organizations. Edited and authored by leading experts in the field, it is the ideal place to begin acquiring or updating knowledge about the moral dimension of work life.'--Adam Grant, The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania, US. 'Wide-ranging in its coverage, this compendium of measures will prove a very helpful aid to researchers studying ethics in organizations. The authors have drawn together and summarized empirical measures of diverse phenomena relevant to organizational ethics - both widely studied topics, such as ethical awareness, decision making, and behavior, and newer, important research on topics such as moral identity, intuition, and emotion. Given the recent rapid growth of behavioral studies of ethics in organizations, this is a very timely work.'--Gary R. Weaver, University of Delaware, US and Senior Associate Editor, Business Ethics Quarterly. Business ethics research and publications have proliferated in recent decades, coinciding with increased public interest in workplace ethical conduct. As studies of behavioral ethics extend across disciplines, scholars unknowingly worked in parallel, creating overlapping constructs and measures. Bringing clarity to the field, the Research Companion to Ethical Behavior in Organizations provides a central reference point for academics, human resource practitioners, and compliance officers interested in measuring the moral dimensions of individuals. With expert contributions, this book catalogs empirical work from management and social science disciplines, offering insights to the varied and nuanced constructs used in behavioral ethics. The authors describe and evaluate over 300 measures, including established surveys and new behavioral research techniques. Doctoral students and veteran management researchers will benefit from summaries of the latest ethics research tools and trends. Offering solutions for research challenges and suggesting new research streams and areas for fruitful study, this Companion enhances the burgeoning field of behavioral ethics
1. Moral awareness / Jared A. Miller, Zachariah J. Rodgers, & John B. Bingham -- 2. Ethical behavior / Samuel D. Brown, Aaron Miller, Kristen Bell DeTienne -- 3. Ethical decision making / John Camden Robinson, Marc-Charles "M-C" Ingerson, Rachel P. Mahrt -- 4. Values and attitudes / James D. Carlson, Rachael Dailey Goodwin, Lori L. Wadsworth -- 5. Individual differences : traits and ethical leadership / David C. Howe, Matthew C. Walsman, Carol Frogley Ellertson -- 6. Moral emotions and emotional dispositions / Lyndon E. Garrett -- 7. Constructs and measures from beyond the field of ethics / Lyndon E. Garrett, Adrian K. Klemme, and Alan L. Wilkins -- 8. Challenges in business ethics research / Christian Mealey, James D. Carlson, Mark A. Widmer
