Handbook of Parenting and Child Development Across the Lifespan
Part I: How Parents Influence Children's Development -- Chapter 1. The Importance of Parenting in Influencing the Lives of Children -- Chapter 2. Biological Influences on Children's Development -- Chapter 3. Parent-Child Relationships and Attachment -- Chapter 4. Social Learning Influences: Modeling, Instructions, Consequences -- Chapter 5. Effects of Parental Relationships on Children -- Chapter 6. The Role of Fathers in Supporting Children's Development -- Chapter 7. Trauma and Parenting: Considering Humanitarian Crisis Contexts -- Part II: The Effects of Parenting on Children's Development -- Chapter 8. Parenting and Human Brain Development -- Chapter 9. Effects of Parenting on Young Children's Language and Communication -- Chapter 10. The Effects of Parenting on Emotion and Self-Regulation -- Chapter 11. Peer and Sibling Relationships -- Chapter 12. Schooling and Academic Attainment -- Chapter 13. Children's Health, Physical Activity, and Nutrition -- Chapter 14. Children with Developmental Disorders -- Part III: Determinants of Parenting -- Chapter 15. Child Characteristics and Their Reciprocal Effects on Parenting -- Chapter 16. Child Self-Regulation and Parental Mental Health -- Chapter 17. Parental Cognitions: Relations to Parenting and Child Behavior -- Chapter 18. Family Structure and the Nature of Couple Relationships: Family Violence, Separation, Divorce, and Repartnering -- Chapter 19. Social Support and Relationships with Family and Friends -- Chapter 20. Cultural Background and Religious Beliefs -- Chapter 21. Work, Poverty, and Financial Stress -- Chapter 22. Long Distance Parenting: The Impact of Parental Separation and Absence due to Work Commitments on Families -- Chapter 23. Communities, Neighborhoods, and Housing -- Chapter 24. Policies and Services Affecting Parenting -- Part IV: Tasks and Challenges of Parenting and Child Development Across the Lifespan -- Chapter 25. Preparation for Parenthood -- Chapter 26. Parenting of Infants and Toddlers -- Chapter 27. Parenting of Preschool and School-Aged Children -- Chapter 28. Parenting of Adolescents and Emerging Adults -- Chapter 29. Parenting of Adult Children: A Neglected Area of Parenting Studies -- Chapter 30. Parenting and Career Responsibilities During the Later Years -- Part V: Supporting Parenting -- Chapter 31. The Impact of Poverty and Discrimination on Family Interactions and Problem Development -- Chapter 32. Role of University Parenting Programs in Prevention -- Chapter 33. Parenting and Family Intervention in Treatment -- Part VI: Implications for Policy and Practice -- Chapter 34. Towards a Comprehensive, Evidence-Based System of Parenting Support over the Lifespan -- Chapter 35. Economic Benefits of Sustained Investments in Parenting -- Chapter 36. Future Directions in Research and Practice
This handbook presents the latest theories and findings on parenting, from the evolving roles and tasks of childrearing to insights from neuroscience, prevention science, and genetics. Chapters explore the various processes through which parents influence the lives of their children, as well as the effects of parenting on specific areas of child development, such as language, communication, cognition, emotion, sibling and peer relationships, schooling, and health. Chapters also explore the determinants of parenting, including consideration of biological factors, parental self-regulation and mental health, cultural and religious factors, and stressful and complex social conditions such as poverty, work-related separation, and divorce. In addition, the handbook provides evidence supporting the implementation of parenting programs such as prevention/early intervention and treatments for established issues. The handbook addresses the complementary role of universal and targeted parenting programs, the economic benefits of investment in parenting programs, and concludes with future directions for research and practice. Topics featured in the Handbook include: · The role of fathers in supporting children’s development. · Developmental disabilities and their effect on parenting and child development. · Child characteristics and their reciprocal effects on parenting. · Long-distance parenting and its impact on families. · The shifting dynamic of parenting and adult-child relationships. · The effects of trauma, such as natural disasters, war exposure, and forced displacement on parenting. The Handbook of Parenting and Child Development Across the Lifespan is an essential reference for researchers, graduate students, clinicians, and therapists and professionals in clinical child and school psychology, social work, pediatrics, developmental psychology, family studies, child and adolescent psychiatry, and special education
