Handbook of research on techno-entrepreneurship : how technology and entrepreneurship are shaping the development of industries and companies
1. The knowledge base of technology entrepreneurship / Ivan Zupic -- 2. Technology entrepreneurship, innovation and intrapreneurship : managing entrepreneurial activities in technology-intensive environments / Alexander Brem and Jens Borchardt -- 3. Technology in family business studies : a bibliometric analysis (1991-2012) / Cinzia Dessì, Michela Floris and Alessia Sanna -- 4. Capitalization of science and technology knowledge : practices, trends and impacts on techno-entrepreneurship / Diane A. Isabelle -- 5. The commercialization process of innovation in small high-technology firms : theoretical review / Jarkko Pellikka -- 6. Technology entrepreneurship in China : what do Chinese science and technology parks do for entrepreneurs? : the exemplary case of Jiangsu / Dominique Jolly and Fuquan Zhu -- 7. What is e-entrepreneurship? : fundamentals of company founding in the net economy / Tobias Kollmann -- 8. Venture capital financing of techno-entrepreneurial start-ups : drivers and barriers for investments in research-based spin-offs in the Dutch medical life sciences industry / Joyce Houterman, Vincent Blok and Onno Omta -- 9. Working as technology scout and techno-intrapreneur / Magnus Hoppe -- 10. The role of academicians in technology entrepreneurship / Mohar Yusof, Mohammad Saeed Siddiq and Leilanie Mohd Nor -- 11. Personal attributes of academic entrepreneurs / Hafizul Othman, Rosni Abdullah and Nasriah Zakaria -- 12. Companies spun out of universities : different typologies for different performance patterns / Giuseppe Criaco ... [et al.] -- 13. The role of the technology transfer office in promoting university-industry collaboration / Ciara Fitzgerald, Margaret Ledwith and Rory O'Shea -- 14. Demand competition and entrepreneurial (de novo) entry in industries based on systemic technologies / Lalit Manral -- 15. Nascent technology entrepreneurship supply chain emergence / Jennifer L. Woolley -- 16. Frugal innovation and returnee-diaspora entrepreneurship / Preeta M. Banerjee and Ana Leirner -- 17. Drivers of green strategy for enhancing sustainable technopreneurship in emerging economies / Broto Rauth Bhardwaj and Kee-hung Lai -- 18. The path to sustainable technological entrepreneurship / Manjula S. Salimath and William Carter
'This second edition of the Handbook of Research on Techno-Entrepreneurship, edited by François Thérin, evidences a burgeoning field of research, and a growing cohort of international researchers working in this field who have produced works for this volume. The papers cover a variety of topics that intersect the realm of technovation with other fields of enquiry, such as economic development, sustainability, venture capital, new venture incubation, and academic entrepreneurship. This Handbook represents a convenient place to find and read this broad array of recent papers in this field.' - Evan J. Douglas, Griffith Business School, Australia. 'In this Handbook, François Thérin assembles a group of researchers with diverse perspectives to enrich our understanding of the nature, antecedents and consequences of techno-entrepreneurship. The Handbook is comprehensive in its scope, deep in its analyses, informative and interesting to read. It opens many avenues for research while communicating well with managers and policy makers.' - Shaker A. Zahra, University of Minnesota, US. Techno-entrepreneurship is broadly defined as the entrepreneurial and intrapreneurial activities of both existing and nascent companies operating in technology-intensive environments. This second edition examines the latest trends in techno-entrepreneurship. Comprising entirely new contributions by international experts, this edition covers among others: family business, green and sustainable techno-entrepreneurship, effectuation, techno-intrapreneurship, academic entrepreneurship, frugal innovation. With chapters focusing on China, India, Southeast Asia and South America, the Handbook explores views on the new hot spots in techno-entrepreneurship development. Providing a comprehensive, highly accessible and innovative first insight into the developing sphere of techno-entrepreneurship, this international study will be essential reading for postgraduate students, academics and researchers with an interest in management and entrepreneurship. Managerial and entrepreneurial professionals in high-tech industries will also find much to interest them within this Handbook
