Paths to the Emerging State in Asia and Africa
This book is open access under a CC BY-NC-ND license. This book addresses the issue of how a country, which was incorporated into the world economy as a periphery, could make a transition to the emerging state, capable of undertaking the task of economic development and industrialization. It offers historical and contemporary case studies of transition, as well as the international background under which such a transition was successfully made (or delayed), by combining the approaches of economic history and development economics. Its aim is to identify relevant historical contexts, that is, the ‘initial conditions’ and internal and external forces which governed the transition. It also aims to understand what current low-income developing countries require for their transition. Three economic driving forces for the transition are identified. They are: (1) labor-intensive industrialization, which offers ample employment opportunities for labor force; (2) international trade, which facilitates efficient international division of labor; and (3) agricultural development, which improves food security by increasing supply of staple foods. The book presents a bold account of each driver for the transition. Keijiro Otsuka is Professor of Economics, Kobe University and Kaoru Sugihara is Specially Appointed Professor of the Research Institute for Humanity and Nature
1 Multiple Paths to Industrialization: A Global Context of the Rise of Emerging States (Kaoru Sugihara) -- 2 Technology Transfer and Agricultural Development: A Comparative Study of Asia and Africa(Keijiro Otsuka) -- 3 Southeast Asia and International Trade: Continuity and Change in Historical Perspective(Ryuto Shimada) -- 4 Role of State and Non-State Networks in Early-Modern Southeast Asian Trade(Atsushi Ota) -- 5 Growth of Regional Trade in Modern Southeast Asia: The Rise of Singapore, 1819-1913(Atsushi Kobayashi) -- 6 Labour-intensive Industrialization and the Emerging State in Pre-war Japan(Masayuki Tanimoto) -- 7 Changing Patterns of Industrialization and Emerging States in Twentieth Century China (Toru Kubo) -- 8 Historical roots of industrialisation and the emerging state in colonial India(Chikayoshi Nomura) -- 9 Industrial Policy, Industrial Development, and Structural Transformation in Asia and Africa (Yuki Higuchi and Go Shimada) -- 10 Transformation of Rural Economies in Asia and Africa(Jonna P. Estudillo, Elyzabeth F. Cureg, and Keijiro Otsuka) -- 11 Agricultural Market Intervention and Emerging States in Africa(Masayoshi Honma) -- 12 Role of Community and Government in Irrigation Management in Emerging States: Lessons from Japan, China, and India(Kei Kajisa)
