Economic theory for the environment : essays in honour of Karl-Göran Mäler
1. An example of dynamic control of negative stock externalities / Kenneth J. Arrow -- 2. An optimal R&D for a patent race with uncertain duration / Thomas Aronsson -- Per-Olov Johansson and Karl-Gustaf Löfgren -- 3. The strategy of treaty negotiation : "broad but shallow" versus "narrow but deep" / Scott Barrett -- 4. A CGE analysis of sulfur deposition and Sweden's "green" net national product / Lars Bergman -- 5. Biodiversity management under uncertainty : species selection and harvesting rules / William Brock and Anastasios Xepapadeas -- 6. The Kyoto protocol : an economic and game-theoretic interpretation / Parkash Chander ... [et al.] -- 7. A model of fertility transition / Partha Dasgupta -- 8. Notes on irreversibility, sustainability and the limits to growth / Anthony C. Fisher and Jinhua Zhao -- 9. The acid rain game : a formal and mathematically rigorous analysis / Henk Folmer and Pierre von Mouche --10. Bridging ecology and economics : reflections on the role of cost-benefit analysis and the design of interdisciplinary research / Ing-Marie Gren,Clifford S. Russell and Tore Söderqvist -- 11. Valuing ecosystem services / Geoffrey Heal -- 12. Hotelling (1925) on depreciation / Bengt Kriström -- 13. Real versus hypothetical willingness to accept : the Bishop and Heberlein model revisited / Chuan-Zhong Li, Karl-Gustaf Löfgren and W. Michael Hanemann -- 14. An economic approach to the control of invasive species in aquatic systems / Charles Perrings -- 15. Global externalities : sovereign states / Domenico Siniscalco -- 16. What if Jevons had actually liked trees? / Robert M. Solow --17. Mobility and capitalization in local public finance : a reassessment / David A. Starrett -- 18. The core of the cooperative game associated with oligopoly firms / Hirofumo Uzawa --19. Highlighting the acid rain game / Aart de Zeeuw
Karl-Göran Mäler's work has been a mainstay of the frontiers of environmental economics for more than three decades. This outstanding book, in his honour, assembles some of the best minds in the economics profession to confront and resolve many of the problems affecting the husbandry of our national environments
