Handbook of research on Asian business
'This volume is excellent. Students who are interested in Asian business should read it and will find the comprehensive bibliography offered by the different contributors very helpful. In light of the recent global financial crises, it is time to re-examine the "Asian miracles," as well as the Western models of business organizations and regulations. This volume offers great insights not just on Asian business but also on Western economies and business. It is also time to adopt an integrative approach recommended by Yeung through comparative research of businesses and economies in different institutions and cultures.' - Yifei Sun, Economic Geography. 'An absolute "must-have" for college library reference shelves, filled cover-to-cover with keen analyses that any businessperson seeking to make inroads in an Asian market needs to study at length!' - Midwest Book Review. 'This book serves as an important guide to the many fascinating research questions about Asian business waiting to be addressed. The study of Asian business has reached equality in importance to the study of business in Europe and North America. Researchers who study any of these regions have an incentive to follow the study of business in the other regions, if for no other reason than that many global firms from each region operate in all regions now. Nonetheless, the more important reason for knowledge transfer among researchers of each region is that these exchanges can only advance everyone's research. Henry Yeung and the contributors are to be thanked for setting out a rich agenda for research on Asian business that will elevate this study to equality with research elsewhere in the world.' - Eurasian Geography and Economics. 'This book is extremely comprehensive and well researched. It will be of particular interest to scholars in the fields of international business, development studies, economic geography, regional studies as well as international and national policymakers.' - Science Technology & Society. The rise of Asia as an important region for global business has been widely recognized as one of the most significant economic phenomena in the new millennium. This accessible and comprehensive Handbook brings together state-of-the-art reviews of Asian business in an expansive range of areas including: business organizations, strategic management, marketing, state-business relations, business and development, business policy issues. It is argued that whilst academic studies on Asian  ...
pt. I. Business strategy and organization -- pt. II. Business and marketing -- pt. III. Business-state relations -- pt. IV. Business, development and policy issues
