The Routledge companion to big history
"The Routledge Companion to Big History guides readers though the variety of themes and concepts that structure contemporary scholarship in the field of big history. The book is divided into five parts, each representing current and evolving areas of interest to the community, including big history's relationship to science, social science, the humanities, and the future, as well as teaching big history and 'little big histories'. A timely collection with contributions from leading proponents in the field, it is the ideal guide for those wanting to engage with the theories and concepts behind big history"--
What is big history / David Christian -- Big history and the study of time : underlying temporalities of big history / Barry Wood -- Big history and astronomy : the Fermi paradox / Jonathan Markley -- Big history and macro evolution / Andrey Korotayev, Leonid Grinin, Alexander Markov -- Big history and anthropology / Barry Rodrigue -- Big history and archaeology / Brian Fagan -- Big history and philosophy / Armando Viso -- Big history and political science / Lowell Gustafson -- Big history and historiography / David Baker -- Big history and critical theory / David Blanks -- Big history, morality and religion / Cynthia Stokes Brown -- A case for little big histories / Esther Quaedackers -- The little big history of the Nalon River, Asturias, Spain / Olga García-Moreno, Diego Álvarez-Laó, Miguel Arbizu, Eduardo Dopico, Eva García-Vázquez, Joaquín García Sansegundo, Montserrat Jiménez-Sánchez, Laura Miralles, Icaro Obeso, Ángel Rodríguez-Rey, Marco de la Rasilla Vives, Luis Vicente Sánchez Fernández, Luis Rodríguez Terente, Luigi Toffolatti, Pablo Turrero -- Sketch of a little big history of Private E.E. Benjamin and the Great War / Craig Benjamin -- The Big History Project in Australia / Tracy Sullivan -- Big history teaching in Korea / Seohyung Kim -- Crossing thresholds : using big history to meet challenges in teaching and learning in the United States / Robert B. Bain -- Big history and the future of technology / Leonid and Anton Grinin -- Big history and the singularity / Akop Nazaretyan -- Underground metro systems : a durable geological proxy of rapid urban population growth and energy consumption during the Anthropocene / Mark Williams, Matt Edgeworth, Jan Zalasiewicz, Colin N. Waters, Will Steffen, Alexander P. Wolfe, Nicholas J. Minter, Alejandro Cearreta, Agnieszka Galuszka, Peter Haff, John McNeill, Andrew Revkin, Daniel deB. Richter, Simon Price, Colin Summerhayes -- The coming energy transition : what comes after fossil-fueled civilization? / Joseph Voros.
