Brexit and the consequences for international competitiveness
1. Theoretical Aspects of Regional Disintegration and its Consequences for International Competitiveness - Arkadiusz Michał Kowalski -- 2. Brexit and Innovation: Focus on Research and Development in the UK- Marzenna Anna Weresa -- 3. Brexit as a National Transformation Programme: Project Management Perspective- Ewa Sońta-Drączkowska -- 4. The Economic Order of Post-Brexit Europe and the Role of Germany: An Ordoliberal Perspective - Jürgen Wandel -- 5. Changes in Germany’s European Policy in the Face of Brexit - Józef Olszyński -- 6. Bilateral Trade and Investment Between Britain and Germany Ahead of the UK’s Impending Departure from the European Union - Andreas Bielig -- 7. Economic Consequences of Brexit for Poland- Mariusz-Jan Radło -- 8. Economic Implications of Brexit for the International Competitiveness of Russia- Krzysztof Falkowski -- 9. Trade Openness and FDI in the UK after Brexit- Tomasz M. Napiórkowski -- 10. Brexit and Britain’s Relations with South Korea- Piotr Ostaszewski -- 11. Does Brexit Influence China’s “One Belt One Road” Initiative?- Günter Heiduk -- 12. The Impact of Brexit on Foreign Direct Investment and Trade Relations Between the UK and China- Marta Mackiewicz, Agnieszka McCaleb -- 13. The Potential Impacts of Brexit on the Japanese Economy- Anna Maria Dzienis -- 14. Brexit and Sterling Depreciation: Impact on Selected Economies- Anna Sznajderska
This book provides a study on the impact of Brexit on international competitiveness and in doing so, presents a theoretical account of regional disintegration. In recent decades, the theory of regional economic integration has expanded following growing integration processes taking place not only in Europe, but in other continents too. The result of the EU Referendum in the United Kingdom on 23 June 2016 revealed that regional integration does not have to be a one-way process as was perceived for many years. Despite well-developed models of economic integration within economic theory, there still lacks an analytical explanation of the mechanics of disintegration. For many years, integration was commonly perceived as a beneficial process, and while disintegration is not desirable, this led to normative bias in the research on regional integration. This book, therefore, makes an important contribution to theoretical and empirical developments of regional economic disintegration.
