The social and human sciences in global power relations
Introduction: The Social and Human Sciences in Global Power Relations; Johan Heilbron, Thibaud Boncourt, Gustavo Sorá --  Part I. Patterns of Transnationalization -- 1: The Globalization of European Research in the Social Sciences and Humanities (1980-2014): A Bibliometric Study; Johan Heilbron, Yves Gingras -- 2: What Factors Determine the International Circulation of Scholarly Books? The Example of Translations between English and French in the Era of Globalization; Gisèle Sapiro -- 3: What “Internationalization” Means in the Social Sciences. A Comparison of the International Political Science and Sociology Associations; Thibaud Boncourt -- Part II. Transnational Regionalization -- 4: Unity and Fragmentation in the Social and Human Sciences in Latin America; Gustavo Sorá, Alejandro Blanco -- 5: The European Research Area in the Social and Human Sciences: Between National Closure and American Hegemony; Johan Heilbron, Thibaud Boncourt, Rob Timans -- Part III. South-North Relations -- 6: The Postcolonial Internationality of Algerian Academics; Tristan Leperlier -- 7: The Internationalization of Sociology in Argentina, 1985-2015: Geographies and Trends; Alejandro Blanco, Ariel Wilkis -- 8: The Ford Foundation and the Institutionalization of Political Science in Brazil; Leticia Canêdo -- 9: Translating Western Social and Human Science in Argentina. A Comparative Study of Translations from French, English, German, Italian and Portuguese; Gustavo Sorá, Alejandro Dujovne -- Part IV. East-West Relations -- 10:A Case of State Controlled Westernization. Foreign Impacts in the Hungarian Social Sciences (1945-2015); Victor Karady, Peter Tibor Nagy -- 11: Western References in Asian Social Sciences (Japan and South Korea); Thomas Brisson, Laurent Jeanpierre, Kil-ho Lee
This volume employs new empirical data to examine the internationalization of the social sciences and humanities (SSH). While the globalization dynamics that have transformed the shape of the world over the last decades has been the subject of a growing number of scientific studies, very few such studies have set out to analyze the globalization of social and human sciences themselves. Arguing against the complacent assumption that Science is ‘international by nature’, this work demonstrates that the growing circulation of scholars and scientific ideas is a complex, contradictory and contested process. Arranged thematically, the chapters in this volume present a coherent exploration of patterns of transnationalization, South-North and East-West exchanges, and transnational regionalization. Further, they offer fresh insight into specific topics including the influence of the Anglo-American research infrastructure and the development of social and human sciences in postcolonial contexts. Featuring contributions from leading international scholars in the field, this work will advance the research agenda and will have interdisciplinary appeal for scholars from across the social sciences
