Handbook of food bioengineering / edited by Alexandru Mihai Grumezescu, Alina Maria Holban ; Volume 2: Food bioconversion
Food Bioconversion, Volume Two in the Handbook of Food Bioengineering series is an interdisciplinary resource of fundamental information on waste recovery and biomaterials under certain environmental conditions. The book provides information on how living organisms can be used to transform waste into compounds that can be used in food, and how specialized living cells in plants, animals and water can convert the most polluting agents into useful non-toxic products in a sustainable way. This great reference on the bioconversion of industrial waste is ideal in a time when food resources are limited and entire communities starve.
Food waste utilization : green technologies for manufacture of valuable products from food wastes and agricultural wastes / C.M. Narayanan, Shrijita Das, Aditi Pandey -- The importance of microbial and enzymatic bioconversions of isoflavones in bioactive compounds / Danielle B. Lopes, Lívia D. de Queirós, Amanda R.A. de Ávila, Naice E.S. Monteiro, Gabriela A. Macedo -- The recovery of energy and materials from food waste by codigestion with sludge : internal environment of digester and methanogenic pathway / Francesco Di Maria -- Biotechnological production of conjugated fatty acids with biological properties / José C. Andrade, Teresa A.P. Rocha-Santos, Armando C. Duarte, Ana M. Gomes, Ana C. Freitas -- Bioproduct extraction from microbial cells by conventional and nonconventional techniques / Susana J. Kalil, Caroline C. Moraes, Luisa Sala, Carlos A.V. Burkert -- Anticancer action of sulfated flavonoids as phase II metabolites / Katrin Sak -- Prebiotic - probiotic relationship : the genetic fundamentals of polysaccharides conversion by bifidobacterum and lactobacillus genera / Penka Petrova, Kaloyan Petrov -- Plant by-products and food industry waste: a source of nutraceuticals and biopolymers / Winny Routray, Valeria Orsat -- Biotic and abiotic factors to increase bioactive compounds in fruits and vegetables / Carlos E. Ochoa-Velasco, Raúl Avila-Sosa, Addí R. Navarro-Cruz, Aurelio López-Malo, Enrique Palou -- Biomass conversion of plant residues / Joung Du Shin, Chunbao (Charles) Xu, Sang-Hyoun Kim, Hyunook Kim, Nubla Mahmood, Minsoo Kim -- Incorporation and bioconversion of omega-e fatty acids for obtention of enriched fish / Oscar O. Santos, Jr., Fabiana Carbonera, Julianna M. Vagula, Swami Arêa Maruyama, Jesuí V. Visentainer -- Xylitol as bioproduct from the agro and forest biorefinery / María E. Vallejos, María C. Area -- Importance of phosphoric acid for functional foods : prebiotics oligosaccharides / José D. Fontana, Marcela Tiboni, Heidegrid S. Koop, Adelia Grzybowski, Bárbara M.S. Chalcoski, Ricardo Spirandelli, Lucas B. Scremin, Felipe R. Meger -- Recovery of phenolic compounds from olive oil mill waste waters by physicochemical methodologies / Ana María Gómez-Caravaca, Antonio Segura-Carretero, Antonio Martínez-Férez, Javier Miguel Ochando-Pulido -- Boosting our soil with green technology : conversion of organic waste into "black gold" / Kuben Naidoo, Harry Aswatson, Kwasi S. Yobo, Georgina D. Arthur.
