Light harvesting in photosynthesis
Pigments : general properties and biosynthesis / Min Chen and Robert E. Blankenship -- Chlorophylls in a protein environment : how to calculate their spectral and redox properties (from MO to DFT) / Carles Curutchet and Benedetta Mennucci -- Carotenoids : electronic states and biological functions / Harry A. Frank and Bruno Robert -- Light harvesting in higher plants and green algae / Lauren Nicol and Roberta Croce -- Light harvesting in cyanobacteria : the phycobilisomes / Leeat Bar-Eyal, Anat Shperberg-Avni, Yossi Paltiel, Nir Keren, and Noam Adir -- The purple bacterial photosynthetic apparatus / David J. Mothersole, David A. Farmer, Andrew Hitchcock, and C. Neil Hunter -- Light harvesting in green bacteria / Jakub Pencìk and Tomás Mancal -- Light harvesting complexes in chlorophyll c-containing algae / Claudia Büchel -- Reaction centers : structure and mechanism / Michael R. Jones -- Organization of photosynthetic membrane proteins into supercomplexes / Egbert J. Boekema and Dmitry A. Semchonok -- Photoprotective excess energy dissipation / Alberta Pinnola, Diana Kirilovsky, and Roberto Bassi -- The exciton concept / Leonas Valkunas, Jevgenij Chmeliov, and Herbert van Amerongen -- Modeling of energy transfer in photosynthetic light Harvesting / Vladimir I. Novoderezkin and Rienk van Grondelle -- Quantum aspects of photosynthetic energy transfer / Susana F. Huelga and Martin B. Plenio -- Photoinduced electron transfer in the reaction centers / Thomas Renger -- Modulation of the redox potentials / Fabrice Rappaport -- Basic optical spectroscopy for light harvesting / Arvi Freiberg and Gyozo Garab -- Advanced spectroscopy : ultrafast and 2D / Tomás Polívka and Donatas Zigmantas -- Experimental evidence of quantum coherence in photosynthetic light harvesting / Jessica M. Anna, Gregory S. Engel, Gregory D. Scholes, and Rienk van Grondelle -- Systems biophysics : global and target analysis of light harvesting and photochemical quenching in vivo / Ivo H.M. van Stokkum -- Light harvesting, photoregulation and photoprotection in selected artificial photosynthetic systems / Katherine WongCarter, Manuel J. Llansola-Portoles, Gerdenis Kodis, Devens Gust, Ana L. Moore and Thomas A. Moore -- Light to useful charge in nanostructured organic and hybrid solar cells / Tönu Pullerits and Villy Sundström -- Chlorophyll fluorescence as a tool for describing the operation and regulation of photosynthesis in vivo / Jeremy Harbinson -- Harvesting sunlight with cyanobacteria and algae for sustainable production in a bio-based economy / Pascal van Alphen and Klaas J. Hellingwerf
