The global urban competitiveness report - 2013
The Global Urban Competitiveness Report – 2013 is an empirical study and evaluation of the sustainable competitiveness of 500 cities around the world from regional, national and other perspectives. This one-of-a-kind resource draws on a wealth of data sources, all of which are described and assessed, and involve urban economics, geography, urban studies, regional economics and many other fields. Using a sophisticated methodology and a team of 100 researchers from the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, the book not only ranks these cities but also presents a treasury of information with regard to the strengths and weaknesses of each city in relation to each other. -- Included is a full discussion on the structure, trends and determinants of global urban development, prosperity and competitiveness, and comments on the policies and initiatives that are adopted by the most competitive cities. Chapters written by eminent scholars and researchers from organizations such as the United Nations Human Settlements Programme, World Bank and OECD analyze key problems in sustainable urban competitiveness. The research shows how global cities can improve their competitiveness and the analysis reveals that global urban competitiveness has increased overall, the highlight being emerging economy cities. The comprehensive and concise index system and valuation method, and stable and reliable data, provide an accurate reflection on many aspects of a city and its competitiveness. -- ‘This book is an updated assessment of the urban competitiveness of 500 cities in the world, based on seven indicators supported by data from the most authoritative sources. It is a valuable resource for comparing the positions of various cities in the league table of global urban competitiveness. The chapters in Part II written by leading experts of urban competitiveness and urban studies, make this book a valuable reference on the recent conceptual and methodological advancements in urban competitiveness studies.’ (Jianfa Shen, The Chinese University of Hong Kong).
