The development of human resource management across nations : unity and diversity
'This is an excellent book. Bruce Kaufman, in his ever thoughtful way, has not just analyzed the history of the development of HRM, but assembled 17 chapters in which world-class local experts report on that history in their own country. The book is full of fascinating information, stories and analysis and will be a touchstone text for everyone wanting to break out of the usual narrow ethnocentric view that often afflicts studies of HRM.'--Chris Brewster, University of Reading, UK. This innovative book describes the historical development of human resource management (HRM) in seventeen countries around the world. The chapters, written by national experts, describe the origin of HRM in the late 19th - early 20th century and its evolution and development as a business practice to the present day. Offering a comprehensive cross-disciplinary perspective, the chapters discuss the economic, political and social factors that shaped HRM in each country, including the role of national labor movements and labor law regimes. The authors also provide an examination of HR practices and systems within firms, starting with rudimentary hiring and compensation a century ago, progressing to personnel and industrial relations programs in the last century, and culminating in modern human resource management practices today, including strategic high-performance systems. This unique book is the first to identify the commonalities and differences in HRM both across nations and over time. A book with real international appeal, 'The Development of Human Resource Management Across Nations' will interest researchers, students and practitioners involved with management, industrial relations, labor economics, organizational behavior and employment law
1. The development of human resource management across nations : history and its lessons for international and comparative HRM / Bruce E. Kaufman -- 2. A century of human resource management in Argentina / Carlos Aldao-Zapiola -- 3. Human resource management in Australia : historical development and contemporary tensions / Christopher Wright -- 4. The historical evolution of human resource management in Brazil / Zilá Guimarães Horta -- 5. The evolution of human resource management in China : traditions, reforms and developments / Xiangquan Zeng, Liwen Chen, Zhongxing Su -- 6. The history of human resource management in France / Jacques Rojot -- 7. The history of human resource management in Germany / Ruth Rosenberger -- 8. The evolution of human resource management in the UK / Howard Gospel -- 9. Human resource management in India / J.S. Sodhi -- 10. The historical development of HRM in Israel / Itzhak Harpaz -- 11. The evolution of human resource management in Italy : an historical-institutional perspective / Giovanni Costa and Arnaldo Camuffo -- 12. Evolution of human resource management in Japan : continuity, change, and enduring challenges / Jong-Won Woo -- 13. The development of people management in South Korea / Young-Myon Lee -- 14. HRM in Russia over a century of storm and turmoil : a tale of unrealized dreams / Igor Gurkov ... [et al.] -- 15. Human resource management in the Republic of South Africa / Marius Meyer -- 16. Employment regimes and personnel work in Sweden / Lena Gonäs and Patrik Larsson -- 17. Human resource management in Turkey / Lale Tüzüner -- 18. The origins, evolution, and current status of human resource management in the United States / Bruce E. Kaufman
