Managing gender diversity in Asia : a research companion
This timely Companion examines the unique codes and processes of managing gender diversity, equality and inclusion in Asia. Managing Gender Diversity in Asia covers the whole geography of Asia through chapters authored by eminent scholars in the field and thus provides an authoritative tool for a critical and evidence based understanding of gender diversity management in Asia. The distinctive nature of Asian institutional structures, approaches and processes are examined in order to account for variations in representation and inclusion at work for women and men
1. Introduction : theorising and managing gender diversity in the Asian context / Mustafa F. Özbilgin and Jawad Syed -- 2. Diversity and inequality among women in employment in the Arab Middle East Region : a new research agenda / Haya Al-Dajani -- 3. A comparative study of EEO in Pakistan, India and Bangladesh / Faiza Ali -- 4. Employee involvement in Malaysia : gender differences and similarities / Norsiah Aminudin -- 5. Participation in the workplace in Bangladesh : gender integration issues for organizational leaders / Syed Saad Andaleeb -- 6. Gender differences in work experiences, satisfactions and well-being among manufacturing managers in Turkey / Ronald J. Burke, Mustafa Koyuncu and Lisa Fiksenbaum -- 7. Japanese equal employment opportunity law : implications for diversity management in Japan / Nadine Courmadias, Yuka Fujimoto and Charmine E.J. Härtel -- 8. Diversity management rhetoric versus reality : insights from the Lebanese context / Dima Jamali and Hanin Abdallah -- 9. Reflections on difference : women, Islamic feminism and development in the Middle East / Beverly Dawn Metcalfe -- 10. Gender and equality of opportunity in China's labour market / Jane Nolan -- 11. Managing diversity : women managers in Asia / Chris Rowley, Vimolwan Yukongdi and Jean Qi Wei -- 12. From gender empowerment to gender diversity : measuring the gender gap in Muslim majority countries / Jawad Syed -- 13. Gender equity in a male-dominated industry : the case of the steel industry in Vietnam / Anne Vo and Glenda Strachan -- 14. State management of the sex industry in China's past and present / Tiantian Zheng
