Developing next generation leaders for transgenerational entrepreneurial family enterprises
1. Developing next generation leaders / Rocki-Lee DeWitt, Nunzia Auletta, Maria José Parada, Mohar Yusof and Pramodita Sharma 2. The Process of Becoming: Entrepreneurial Leadership Transition to the Second Generation Marcela Ramirez-Pasillas, Patrick Bender and Angelica Nilsson 3. The Next Generation: Pathways for Preparing and Involving New Owners in Colombian Family Businesses Gustavo González Couture and Luis Díaz Matajira 4. Challenges of Collective Leadership Kavil Ramachandran and Navneet Bhatnagar 5. Transgenerational Professionalization of Family Firms: The Role of Next Generation Leaders Mara Brumana, Lucio Cassia, Alfredo De Massis, Allan Discua Cruz and Tommaso Minola 6. The Re-establishment of Family Values as a Driver of Trans-generational Potential Ilse A. Matser, Frank H. Bos, Margré Heetebrij-van Dalfsen and J.P. Coen Rigtering 7. What Should be Passed on to the Successor? The Case of a Long-standing Japanese Family-owned Small Sake Brewery Katsushi Yamaguchi, Naomi Kozono and Hiro Higashide 8. Family's Decision in Venture Creation for Next Generation Leaders: The Role of Trust across Two Ggenerations in the Case of Diversification Leilanie Mohd Nor, Christian Lechner, Mohar Yusof, Barjoyai Bardai, and Siri Roland Xavier 9. Family Social Capital, Transgenerational Learning and Transgenerational Entrepreneurship Maria Teresa Roscoe, Adriane Vieira and Denize Grzybovski 10. Parenting and Next Gen Development Alberto Gimeno and Maria José Parada
This illustrative book considers the interface of business structures, contexts, and leadership building blocks to explore the contingent nature of leadership development in transgenerational entrepreneurship. Longitudinal case studies of 27 family firms in nine different countries provide a rich, global selection of leadership development insights by examining the roles of values, professionalization, leadership style and other contingent factors. The diversity of cases and chapters provides a rich foundation for insight into the pathways currently in use to develop the next generation leaders, illuminating the strategies and pathways of successful transgenerational family enterprises. By examining the available literature and one or more case studies, each chapter draws pragmatic conclusions, with findings that suggest the importance of focusing on leadership as a shared capability, transmission of values to maintain an entrepreneurial culture, the fit between professionalization and values to increase transgenerational potential, the need to address the structure of the business and the focus on parenting to develop next generations. This path-breaking book will inform family business researchers as they explore the ways in use to develop the next generation. Each chapter starts with a mini-case study focused on a dilemma related to leader development, making this book an excellent resource for educators in undergraduate, graduate, or executive programs
