International handbook of maritime business
1. Editor's introduction : the maritime industry means business / Kevin Cullinane -- 2. Business models, supply chain efficiency and port efficiency : new strategic imperatives / Ross Robinson -- 3. Process modelling : a method to increase the performance of container terminals / Thomas Pawlik and Phanthian Zuesongdham -- 4. Knowledge management systems in maritime logistics / Eon-Seong Lee and Dong-Wook Song -- 5. Synchronisation of seaborne cold chains / Jasmine Siu Lee Lam -- 6. The multimodal transport of flowers between Taiwan and China / Anthony Beresford and Chang Zheng -- 7. The logistics functions of shipping lines : perceptions of international shippers in South Korea and the UK / Ki-Soon Hwang, Richard Gray and Kevin Cullinane -- 8. Bundling transport and logistics services in global supply chains / Hercules E. Haralambides and Michele Acciaro -- 9. Maritime networks : a source of competitiveness for shipping lines / Antoine Frémont -- 10. Organisational effectiveness in seaports : a systems approach. / Cimen Karatas Cetin and Güldem Cerit -- 11. Unravelling dynamics in inter-container port relationships through an examination of liner service patterns / Wei Yim Yap and Theo E. Notteboom -- 12. The economics behind the awarding of terminals in seaports : towards a research agenda / Christophe Theys -- 13. Mergers and acquisitions in the shipping industry : the effect on corporate value / Osvaldo Rodrigues de Araujo Rios and Heather Leggate McLaughlin -- 14. Private equity investment in the European ferry market / Alfred J. Baird -- 15. Ownership equity and efficiency : the case of Australian bulk ports / Sophia Everett and Rae Weston -- 16. The hedging performance of the capesize forward freight market / Manolis G. Kavussanos and Ilias D. Visvikis -- 17. The potential for the use of single- versus dual-purpose officers in firms : a theoretical analysis based on resource-based, transaction cost and labour market economics / Ioannis Theotokas and Maria Anne Wagtmann.
This timely and comprehensive new Handbook brings together an unrivalled group of distinguished scholars and practitioners to provide in-depth analysis and a contemporary perspective on a wide-ranging array of topics in maritime economics
