The Elgar companion to Hyman Minsky
1. Introduction : Minsky on money, banking and finance / Dimitri B. Papadimitriou and L. Randall Wray -- 2. What would Minsky have thought of the mortgage crisis? / Jan Kregel -- 3. Minsky and economic policy : "Keynesianism" all over again? / Éric Tymoigne -- 4. Minsky in the "new" capitalism : the new clothes of the financial instability hypothesis / Riccardo Bellofiore, Joseph Halevi and Marco Passarella -- 5. Rational and innovative behaviors at the core of financial crises : banking in Minsky's theory / Eric Nasica -- 6. What would Minsky do? / Marshall Auerback, Paul McCulley and Robert W. Parenteau -- 7. It's the right moment to embrace the Minsky model / Robert J. Barbera and Charles L. Weise -- 8. Innovation and equilibrium? / Martin Shubik -- 9. Hyman Minsky and the dilemmas of contemporary economic method / Duncan K. Foley -- 10. Financial instability and agents' heterogenity : a post Minskyan research agenda / Tiziana Assenza, Domenico Delli Gatti and Mauro Gallegati -- 11. Growth cycles and the financial instability hypothesis (FIH) / Piero Ferri -- 12. A spatialized approach to asset bubbles and Minsky crises / Gary A. Dymski -- 13. The psychology of financial markets : Keynes, Minsky and emotional finance / Sheila Dow -- 14. The generalized "Minsky moment" / James K. Galbraith and Daniel Munevar Sastre.
This Companion provides a timely and engaging treatment of Hyman Minsky's approach to economics, which is enjoying a renewed appreciation because of its prescient analysis of the slow but sure transformation of the capitalist economy in the post-war period. Many have called the global financial crisis that began in the United States in 2007 a "Minsky crisis", and these original contributions demonstrate precisely why both academic economists as well as policymakers have turned to Minsky for guidance. The book brings together the foremost Minsky scholars to provide a comprehensive overview of his approach, with extensions to bring the analysis up to date
