Afro-Latin American studies : an introduction
"Alejandro de la Fuente and George Reid Andrews offer the first systematic, book-length survey of humanities and social science scholarship on the exciting field of Afro-Latin American studies. Organized by topic, these essays synthesize and present the current state of knowledge on a broad variety of topics, including Afro-Latin American music, religions, literature, art history, political thought, social movements, legal history, environmental history, and ideologies of racial inclusion. This volume connects the region's long history of slavery to the major political, social, cultural, and economic developments of the last two centuries. Written by leading scholars in each of those topics, the volume provides an introduction to the field of Afro-Latin American studies that is not available from any other source and reflects the disciplinary and thematic richness of this emerging field"--
"Alejandro de la Fuente and George Reid Andrews offer the first systematic, book-length survey of the humanities and social science scholarship on the exciting field of Afro-Latin American Studies. Organized by topic, these essays synthesize and present the current state of knowledge on a broad variety of topics, including Afro-Latin American music, religions, literature, art history, political thought, social movements, legal history, environmental history, and ideologies of racial inclusion. This volume connects the region's long history of slavery to the major political, social, cultural, and economic developments of the last two centuries. Written by leading scholars in each of those topics, the volume provides an introduction to the field of Afro-Latin American Studies that is not available from any other source and reflects the disciplinary and thematic richness of this emerging field"--
Machine generated contents note: 1. Afro-Latin American studies: an introduction / Alejandro de la Fuente and George Reid Andrews; Part I. Inequalities: 2. The slave trade to Latin America: a historiographical assessment / Roquinaldo Ferreira and Tatiana Seijas; 3. Inequality: race, class, gender / George Reid Andrews; 4. Afro-indigenous interactions, relations, and comparisons / Peter Wade; 5. Law, silence, and racialized inequalities in the history of Afro-Brazil / Brodwyn Fischer, Keila Grinberg and Hebe Mattos; Part II. Politics: 6. Currents in Afro-Latin American political and social thought / Frank Guridy and Juliet Hooker; 7. Rethinking black mobilization in Latin America Tianna Paschel; 8. 'Racial democracy' and racial inclusion: hemispheric histories / Paulina Alberto and Jesse Hoffnung-Garskof; Part III. Culture: 9. Literary liberties: the authority of afrodescendant authors / Doris Sommer; 10. Afro-Latin American art / Alejandro de la Fuente; 11. A century and a half of scholarship on Afro-Latin American music / Robin Moore; 12. Afro-Latin American religions / Stephan Palmie and Paul Christopher Johnson; 13. Environment, space and place: cultural geographies of colonial Afro-Latin America / Karl Offen; Part IV. Transnational Spaces: 14. Transnational frames of Afro-Latin experience: evolving spaces and means of connection, 1600-2000 / Lara Putnam; 15. Afro-Latinos: speaking through silences and rethinking the geographies of blackness / Jennifer A. Jones
