Diversity and contestations over nationalism in Europe and Canada
This edited collection considers how transformations in contemporary societies have raised questions surrounding our sense of community and belonging, alongside our management of increased diversity. Diversity and Contestations over Nationalism in Europe and Canada includes contributions that consider the rise in regional nationalism and a greater willingness to recognise that many states are multinational. It critically explores the effects of altered patterns of immigration and emigration, including whether they give rise to (or re-invigorate) transnational or border-crossing forms of nationalism. The book also identifies the patterns of national transformation, especially in Europe, which we see coupled with significant nationalist reactions by populists as well as extreme right-wing movements and parties. This multidisciplinary collection of works will be a useful resource forresearchers and students of political sociology in Europe and Canada, particularly within the contexts of immigration, multiculturalism and globalization
1. Introduction: Negotiating Territoriality and Nationalism; John Erik Fossum, Riva Kastoryano and Birte Siim -- Part 1: The Transnational Challenge -- 2. Theorising About and Beyond Transnational Processes; Nina Glick Schiller -- 3. Transnational Politics of Integration and an 'Imagined Global Diaspora'; Riva Kastoryano -- 4. Transnationalism and Interculturalism: Overlapping Affinities; Ricard Zapata-Barrero -- 5. Political Engagement Among Young Adults with Minority Backgrounds: Between Identity and Interest; Mette Andersson and Jon Rogstad -- Section 2: The European Union and Canada as Vanguards? -- 6. Can We (Still) Think About the European Union and Canada as 'Cosmopolitan Vanguards'?; John Erik Fossum -- 7. Negotiating Equality and Diversity: Transnational Challenges to European Citizenship; Monika Mokre and Birte Siim -- 8. Wither the Canadian Model? Evaluating the New Canadian Nationalism (2006-2015); Patti Tamara Lenard -- 9. Recognition, Re-Distribution and Solidarity: The Case of Multicultural Canada; Yasmeen Abu-Laban -- Section 3: Contestations Over Nationalism -- 10. Lessons Learned or a Missed Opportunity? Norway After the 22 July Terrorist Attack; Thomas Hyllan Eriksen -- 11. The New Nationalism and its Relationship to Islam; Sindre Bangstad -- 12. The New Front National: Still a Master Case?; Hans-Georg Betz -- 13. "Needed but Undeserving": Contestations of Entitlement in the Danish Policy Framework on Migration and Integration; Martin Bak Jørgensen and Trine Lund Thomsen -- 14. Cultural Recognition and Democratic Participation: Immigrant Organisations in Oslo; Marianne Takle -- 15. Conclusion: Contestations Within, Rather than About, Nationalism; John Erik Fossum, Riva Kastoryano, and Birte Siim
