Blazor Revealed : Building Web Applications in .NET
Build web applications in Microsoft .NET that run in any modern browser, helping you to transfer your .NET experience and skills to a new environment and build browser-based applications using a robust and type-safe language and runtime. Developing a web site with rich client-side behavior means most developers need to learn a transpiled language like JavaScript or TypeScript. But today you can also develop rich browser applications using the .NET runtime and C# using Blazor. With Blazor you can use all that experience you have amassed over the years, and can use thousands of already existing libraries, right in the browser. Blazor Revealed will allow you to create a rich web site experience in no time. You will learn how to build user interfaces, and present data to a user for display and modification, capturing the user’s changes via data binding. The book shows you how to access a rich library of .NET functionality such as a component model for building a composable user interface, including how to develop reusable components that can be used across many pages and web sites. Also covered is data exchange with a server, giving you access to microservices and database services. Blazor provides a fresh take on web development by eliminating the need for you to learn different languages and frameworks for client- and server-side development. Blazor allows C# and .NET to be used on all sides, providing a robust feature set that is well suited toward scalable, enterprise-level applications. Blazor Revealed gets you started in using this important new toolkit for web application development. What You'll Learn: Build user interfaces and display data for users to edit Capture the user’s changes via data binding Transfer data back and forth between server and client Communicate with microservices and database services Develop reusable components and assemble them into bigger components Use routing to build single page applications (SPAs) Build Blazor libraries that are reusable across applications
1. Your First Blazor Project -- 2. Data Binding -- 3. Components and Structure for Blazor Applications -- 4. Services and Dependency Injection -- 5. Data Storage and Microservices -- 6. Communication with Microservices -- 7. Single Page Applications and Routing -- 8. JavaScript Interoperability
