Towards European science : dynamics and policy of an evolving European research space
1. Towards European science : an introduction / Linda Wedlin and Maria Nedeva -- 2. From "science in Europe" to "European science" / Maria Nedeva and Linda Wedlin -- 3. European Research Area : an evolving policy agenda / Terttu Luukkonen -- 4. Actor constellations in the European Funding Area / Dietmar Braun -- 5. Executive governance of European science - technocratic, segmented, and path dependent? / Åse Gornitzka -- 6. Transnational organizations defining quality and excellence / Linda Wedlin and Tina Hedmo -- 7. Organizing knowledge institutions - standardizing diversity / Ivar Bleiklie ... [et al.] -- 8. Academies and their roles in policy decisions / Lars Engwall -- 9. The internationalisation of research institutes / Laura Cruz-Castro, Koen Jonkers and Luis Sanz-Menéndez -- 10. Quo vadis European science? / Linda Wedlin and Maria Nedeva.
Since the European Research Area was launched at the beginning of the century, significant efforts have been made to realise the vision of a coherent space for science and research in Europe. But how does one define such a space and measure its development? This timely book analyses the dynamics of change in the policy and governance of science and research within Europe over the past decade. It widens the scope of traditional policy analysis by focusing attention on the interaction between policy rationales, new governance mechanisms, and the organisational dynamics of the scientific field. The contributors build a novel analytical framework to understand the European research space as one shifting from a fragmented space of "Science in Europe" to one that is labeled "European Science". The chapters explore the dynamics of this shift through the lenses of political science, organisation theory, science policy and related analytical traditions. Towards European Science is an interdisciplinary book which will attract a wide set of scholars and professionals interested in science policy, governance and scientific practice. It will also be of use to university leaders and managers, as well as policy-makers and practitioners working on issues of internationalisation and the Europeanisation of science
