Sociology of religion : a reader
Changing American congregations : findings from the third wave of the national congregations study / Mark Chaves and Shawna Anderson -- All creatures great and small : megachurches in context / Mark Chaves -- Is the U.S. a counter example to the secularization thesis / David Voas and Mark Chavez -- Gendering secularization theory / Linda Woodhead -- Socioeconomic inequality in the American religious system : an update and assessment / Christian Smith and Robert Faris -- The impact of international migration on home churches / Prema Kurien -- Redefining the boundaries of belonging : the institutional character of transnational religious life / Peggy Levitt -- Religious population share and religious identity salience : is Jewish identity more important to Jews in less Jewish areas? / Becka Alper and Daniel Olson -- Evolving content -- Spiritual but not religious? beyond binary choices in the study of religion / Nancy Ammerman -- "I was a Muslim, but now I am a Christian": preaching, legitimation, and identity management in an southern Evangelical church / Gerardo Marti -- Warrior chicks / Kathleen Jenkins and Gerardo Marti -- The embodied goddess : feminine witchcraft and female divinity / Wendy Griffin -- U.S. college students' perception of religion and science : conflict, collaboration, or independence? / Christopher Scheitle -- Sensing god : bodily manifestations and their interpretations in Pentecostal rituals and everyday life / Joel Inbody -- Patterning diversity -- At ease with our own kind : worship practices and class segregation in American religion / Timothy Nelson -- Poor teenager's religion / Phillip Schwadel -- Practical divine influence : socioeconomic status and belief in the prosperity gospel / Scott Schieman and Jong Hyun Jung -- Religion, race, and discrimination : a field experiment of how American churches welcome newcomers / Bradley RE Wright, Michael Wallace, Annie Scola Wisnesky, Christopher M. Donnelly, Stacy Missari and Christine Zozula -- Race, belonging and participation in religious congregations / Brandon Martinez and Kevin Dougherty -- The gender pray gap : wage labor and the religiosity of high-earning women and men / Landon Schnabel -- Sexual encounters and manhood acts : evangelicals, latter-day saints, and religious masculinities / Kelsey Burke and Amy Moff Hudec -- Islam and woman: where tradition meets modernity / Jeri Altneu Sechzer -- Evangelical ambivalence towards gays and lesbians / Lydia Bean and Brandon C. Martinez -- "We are God's children, y'all" : race, gender, and sexuality in lesbian- and gay-affirming congregations / Krista McQueeney -- Seeing consequences -- Religion and gender equality worldwide : a country-level analysis / Landon Schnabel -- Latino congregations and youth educational expectations / Esmeralda Sanchez, Nicholas Vargas, Rebecca Burwell, Jessica Hamar Martinez, Milagros Pena, and Edwin I. Hernandez -- Rejecting evolution: the role of religion, education and social networks / Jonathan P. Hill -- Faith in the age of Facebook : exploring the links between faith and social network site membership and use / Brian J. Miller, Peter Mundey, and Jonathan P. Hill -- Correcting a curious neglect, or bringing religion back in / Christian Smith -- Social support and the religious dimensions of close ties / Stephen Merino -- Bereavement and religion online : stillbirth, neonatal loss and parental religiosity / Janel Kragt Bakker and Jenell Paris? -- Index
