Handbook of research on venture capital
'This Handbook, edited by Hans Landström, provides a timely and valuable addition to the body of knowledge in the field of venture capital research, especially from the managerial perspective ... the book will make a valuable addition to any library that caters to the needs of those interested in entrepreneurship and new venture creation, be it academics, practitioners or policy-makers.' - Amama Shabbir, International Journal of Entrepreneurial Behaviour and Research. 'This is undoubtedly an important collection of papers that provides a very comprehensive, but not exhaustive, overview of the field of venture capital research and a stimulus to new thinking about research issues and perspectives. It should be on the desk of every scholar in the field and on the initial reading list of any aspiring doctoral researcher.' - Richard Harrison, International Small Business Journal ' ... highly recommended for those requiring in-depth analysis of the pioneers of venture capital including future research and trends in this area.' - Saleem Sheikh, International Company and Commercial Law Review. This Handbook provides an excellent overview of our knowledge on the various facets of managerial venture capital research. The book opens with a thorough survey of venture capital as a research field; conceptual, theoretical and geographic aspects are explored, and its pioneers revisited. The focus then shifts to the specific environs of venture capital. Firstly, institutional (formal) venture capital is discussed. The analysis encompasses considerations such as structure, pre-investment processes, venture capitalist's value-adding, performance, impact on economic development and early-stage financing as well as management buyouts. Business angel research, networks, and their investment decision making are then discussed under the wider umbrella of informal venture capital. Finally, the corporate venture capital market is explored from both the entrepreneur's perspective and that of the supply side of corporate venture capital. Also providing a lively and stimulating debate on policy implications and possible directions for future venture capital research, this all-encompassing Handbook will prove an invaluable reference tool for those with an interest in policy, business management, innovation, entrepreneurship, and the financing of new and growth-oriented ventures
pt. I. Venture capital as a research field -- pt. II. Institutional venture capital -- pt. III. Informal venture capital -- pt. IV. Corporate venture capital -- pt. V. Implications
