The handbook of the economics of corporate governance / edited by Benjamin E. Hermalin (Thomas & Alison Schneider Distinguished Professor of Finance and Professor of Economics, University of California, Berkeley), Michael S. Weisbach (Ralph W. Kurtz Chair in Finance, The Ohio State University) ; Volume 1
Introduction: the study of corporate governance / Benjamin E. Hermalin, Michael S. Weisbach -- Aspects of the economics of organization with application to corporate governance / Benjamin E. Hermalin -- Assessing managerial ability: implications for corporate governance / Benjamin E. Hermalin, Michael S. Weisbach -- Law and corporate governance / Robert Bartlett, Eric Talley -- The evidence on mergers and acquisitions: a historical and modern report / J. Harold Mulherin, Jeffry M. Netter, Annette B. Poulsen -- Boards, and the directors who sit on them / Renée Birgit Adams -- Executive compensation: a survey of theory and evidence / Alex Edmans, Xavier Gabaix, Dirk Jenter -- Blockholders: a survey of theory and evidence / Alex Edmans, Clifford G. Holderness -- Governance and stakeholders / Vikas Mehrotra, Randall Morck -- Evolution of ownership and control around the world: the changing face of capitalism / Julian Franks, Colin Mayer.
"The Handbook of the Economics of Corporate Governance, Volume One, covers all issues important to economists. It is organized around fundamental principles, whereas multidisciplinary books on corporate governance often concentrate on specific topics. Specific topics include Relevant Theory and Methods, Organizational Economic Models as They Pertain to Governance, Managerial Career Concerns, Assessment & Monitoring, and Signal Jamming, The Institutions and Practice of Governance, The Law and Economics of Governance, Takeovers, Buyouts, and the Market for Control, Executive Compensation, Dominant Shareholders, and more. Providing excellent overviews and summaries of extant research, this book presents advanced students in graduate programs with details and perspectives that other books overlook."--Publisher's description
