Exploring interpersonal dynamics
This is an annual research series devoted to the examination of occupational stress, health and well being, with particular emphasis on the multi-disciplinary nature of occupational stress. The intent is to pull together the various streams of research from a variety of disciplines to better capture the significant bodies of work in occupational stress and well being. We provide a multidisciplinary and international perspective that gives a thorough and critical assessment of issues in occupational stress and well being. The theme for this volume is: Exploring Interpersonal Dynamics. It covers - Workplace Aggression and Violence against Individuals and Organizations: Causes, Consequences, and Interventions; The Radiating Effects of Intimate Partner Violence on Occupational Stress and Well Being; The Changing Nature of Job Stress: Risk and Resources; Job Characteristics and Learning Behavior: Review and Psychological Mechanisms; Organizational Stress Through the Lens of Conservation of Resources (COR) Theory; The Role of 'Happiness' in Organizational Research: Past, Present and Future Directions; Display Rules and Strain in Service Jobs: What's Fairness Got to do With It? Stress and Well Being in the Context of Mentoring Processes: New Perspectives and Directions for Future Research
Overview / Pamela L. Perrew(c)Øe, Daniel C. Ganster -- Workplace aggression and violence against individuals and organizations : causes, consequences, and interventions / Lori Anderson Snyder, Peter Y. Chen, Paula L. Grubb, Rashaun K. Roberts, Steven L. Sauter, Naomi G. Swanson -- The radiating effects of intimate partner violence on occupational stress and well being / Michelle K. Duffy, Kristin L. Scott, Anne M. OLeary-Kelly -- The changing nature of job stress : risk and resources / Mark Tausig, Rudy Fenwick, Steven L. Sauter, Lawrence R. Murphy, Corina Graif -- Job characteristics and learning behavior : review and psychological mechanisms / Toon W. Taris, Michiel A.J. Kompier -- Organizational stress through the lens of conservation of resources (COR) theory / Mina Westman, Stevan E. Hobfoll, Shoshi Chen, Oranit B. Davidson, Shavit Laski -- The role of 'happiness' in organizational research : past, present and future directions / Thomas A. Wright -- Display rules and strain in service jobs : what's fairness got to do with it? / Alicia A. Grandey, Glenda M. Fisk -- Stress and well being in the context of mentoring processes : new perspectives and directions for future research / Angela M. Young
