Theory of language : the representational function of language
Theory of Language -- Title page -- LCC data -- Table of Contents -- Preface: Traces of Bühler's Semiotic Legacy in Modern Linguistics -- 1. What is at stake? -- 2. Deixis differential: weak and strong -- 2.1. The function of deixis -- 2.2. Topic in adult competence and in early acquisition -- 2.3. Interim conclusion -- 3. Bühler's Organon model (Bühler 1934, English version 1990) -- 4. The linguistic model devised by Tokieda (1950) -- 5. Deictic and anaphoric perspectives of linguistic description -- 6. I-mode and D-mode -- 7. Referencing mode and the typological criterion -- 7.1. Reference to person -- 7.2. Language typologies in terms of do vs. become -- 7.3. The Japanese evaluating sentence, han-bun dan, and Bühler's origo concept -- 8. Pronouns and reflexives -- 8.1. Reflexives in Japanese: their non-anaphoric status -- 8.2. 'Personal pronouns' in Japanese: pronominal reference vs. full nominalreference -- 9. Indexicals -- 9.1. Indexicals and deictics -- 9.2. Pure indexicals and true demonstratives -- 9.3. Multiple indexing -- 10. Comparison -- 11. Conclusion -- References -- Editor's Introduction - Karl Bühler: Sematologist -- I. -- II. -- III. -- References -- 2. Manuscripts in Bühler's Literary Estate. -- 3. Archive materials and documents related to administrative processes. -- Notes -- Translator's Preface -- KARL BUHLER: THEORY OF LANGUAGE THE REPRESENTATIONAL FUNCTION OF LANGUAGE -- Preface -- Introduction: Theory of Language Yesterday and Today -- 0. Historical works -- 1. Paul's "Principles of the History of Language" - dependency on Descartes - natural sciences and history -- 2. Saussure's "Course" - substance-oriented thought in the nineteenth century -- 3. Husserl's programme in the "Logical Investigations -- PART I. The Principles of Language Research -- 1. Idea and Plan of the Axiomatics.
Karl Bühler (1879-1963) was one of the leading theoreticians of language of the twentieth century. Although primarily a psychologist, Bühler devoted much of his attention to the study of language and language theory. His masterwork Sprachtheorie (1934) quickly gained recognition in the fields of linguistics, semiotics, the philosophy of language and the psychology of language. This new edition of the English translation of Bühler's theory begins with a survey on 'Bühler's legacy' for modern linguistics (Werner Abraham), followed by the Theory of Language, and finally with a special 'Postscript: Twenty-five Years Later …' (Achim Eschbach). Bühler's theory is divided into four parts. Part I discusses the four axioms or principles of language research, the most famous of which is the first, the organon model, the base of Bühler's instrumental view of language. Part II treats the role of indexicality in language and discusses deixis as one determinant of speech. Part III examines the symbolic field, dealing with context, onomatopoeia and the function of case. Part IV deals with the elements of language and their organization (syllabification, the definition of the word, metaphor, anaphora, etc).The text is accompanied by an Introduction (Achim Eschbach); Translator's preface (Donald Fraser Goodwin); Glossary of terms; and a Bibliography of cited works.
