Handbook of industrial crystallization
Crystallization is an important separation and purification process used in industries ranging from bulk commodity chemicals to specialty chemicals and pharmaceuticals. In recent years, a number of environmental applications have also come to rely on crystallization in waste treatment and recycling processes. The authors provide an introduction to the field of newcomers and a reference to those involved in the various aspects of industrial crystallization. It is a complete volume covering all aspects of industrial crystallization, including material related to both fundamentals and applications. This new edition presents detailed material on crystallization of biomolecules, precipitation, impurity-crystal interactions, solubility, and design. Provides an ideal introduction for industrial crystallization newcomers Serves as a worthwhile reference to anyone involved in the field Covers all aspects of industrial crystallization in a single, complete volume
Solutions and solution properties / Albert M. Schwartz and Allan S. Myerson -- Crystals, crystal growth, and nucleation / Allan S. Myerson and Rajiv Ginde -- The influence of impurities and solvents on crystallization / Paul A. Meenan, Stephen R. Anderson, and Diana L. Klug -- Analysis and measurement of crystallization utilizing the population balance / K.A. Berglund -- Crystallizer selection and design / Richard C. Bennett -- Precipitation processes / P.H. Karpinski and J.S. Wey -- Melt crystallization / J. Ulrich and H.C. Bülau -- Crystallizer mixing : understanding and modeling crystallizer mixing and suspension flow / Daniel Green -- Control of crystallization processes / J.B. Rawlings, C.W. Sink, and S.M. Miller -- Batch crystallization / J.S. Wey and P.H. Karpinski -- Crystallization in the pharmaceutical and bioprocessing industries / D.J. Kirwan and C.J. Orella -- Crystallization of proteins / John Wiencek -- Crystallization in foods / Richard W. Hartel
Solutions and Solution Properties; Crystals, Crystal Growth, and Nucleation; The Influence of Impurities and Solvents on Crystallization; Analysis and Measurement of Crystallization Utilizing the Population Balance; Crystallizer Selection and Design; Precipitation Processes; Melt Crystallization; Crystallizer Mixing:Understanding and Modelingcrystallizer Mixing and Suspension Flow; Control of Crystallization Processes; Batch Crystallization; Crystallization In The Pharmaceutical and Bioprocessing Industries; Crystallization of Proteins; Crystallization in Foods; Index
