Samsung ARTIK Reference : The Definitive Developers Guide
Provides a professional-level reference to the Samsung ARTIK API, as well as to other aspects of interest to developers such as the file systems, the operating system internals, various available interfaces, input/output, and the hardware itself. This is the perfect book for experienced programmers and developers who want to jump in and work with Samsung's new ARTIK product line to create Internet of Things devices and applications. It is also a perfect follow-up resource for new-to-the-field developers who are just getting past the beginning stages of learning the ARTIK. Samsung ARTIK Reference begins with a concise overview of the hardware and the various developer reference boards that are available. Attention then shifts to operating system internals, modes such as sleep and startup, and the various file systems and their parameters that are available for developers to adjust. Also included is a reference of API calls, guidance on input and output, documentation of serial, audio, graphic, and other interfaces. There is extensive reference to online resources with annotation and commentary guiding the learning process in many directions for further study. Install the ARTIK toolkit and prepare to develop Manipulate the inner workings of the ARTIK operating system Look up and refer to details of the ARTIK API specification Perform input and output over the peripheral interface buses Build embeddable applications in support of IoT devices Embed the ARTIK modules into your own hardware products.
1. Learning More About ARTIK -- 2. Hardware -- 3. Developer Reference Boards -- 4. About the Operating Systems -- 5. Operating System Internals -- 6. Startup, Sleep, and Shutdown -- 7. File Systems -- 8. The /sys Virtual File System -- 9. The /dev Virtual File System -- 10. The /prod Virtual File System -- 11. The /run Virtual File System -- 12. System Administration -- 13. AXT Module Connectors -- 14. Hardware I/O Connections -- 15. Antennas -- 16. The API Kits -- 17. General Purpose Input Output -- 18. Analog Input and I/O -- 19. Pulse Width Modulated Output -- 20. Inter-Integrated Circuit -- 21. Serial Peripheral Interface -- 22. Audio and Inter-IC Sound -- 23. Graphics and Video -- 24. Conclusions and Next Steps.
