Oracle Application Express Administration : For DBAs and Developers
Get the help you need as an APEX or database administrator to succeed in managing Oracle Application Express (APEX) environments. With this book you will focus on creating the right combination of scalability, high-availability, backup and recovery, integrity, resource control, multi-tenant database, etc. Everything you need is covered from simple to enterprise-class deployments, with emphasis on enterprise-level requirements. Many books cover how to develop applications in Oracle APEX. It’s a tool with a fast-growing user base as developers come to know how quick and easy it is to create new applications that run in a browser. However, just getting an application off the ground is only a small part of a bigger picture. Applications must be supported. They must be available when users need them. They must be robust against disaster and secure against malicious attack. These are the issues addressed in Oracle Application Express Administration. When these issues are tackled successfully, you will achieve long-term success in using Oracle APEX as a rapid application-development tool set in combination with the features of Oracle Database. You will learn how to install the Oracle APEX engine in support of small-scale projects, such as at the departmental level, and in support of enterprise-level projects accessed by thousands of users across dozens of time zones. You will learn to take advantage of the underlying feature set of Oracle Database in regard to application scalability and performance (monitoring and resource control), integrity, data security, high-availability, and robustness against failure and data loss. Oracle Application Express Administration also describes: APEX middle-tiers Integration with Oracle E-Business Suite Self-provisioning workspaces And helps you in taking advantage of multi-tenancy in Oracle Database 12c and beyond >.
Part I: APEX Overview -- 1. About APEX -- Part II: Architecture -- 2. APEX in the Database -- 3. Middle-tier -- 4. Database Advanced Security -- 5. APEX and Oracle E-Business Suite -- 6. High Availability -- 7. APEX in Multitenant Deployment -- Part III: Configuration -- 8. Installing -- 9. Upgrading and Patching -- 10. Configuring -- 11. Administer APEX in Runtime Only Mode -- 12. Database and APEX Backups -- 13. Self-Provisioning Workspaces -- Part IV: Tuning -- 14. Monitoring -- 15. Performance and Tuning -- 16. Resource Manager and APEX.
