Handbook of innovation indicators and measurement
pt. I. Why indicators matter -- pt. II. Defining innovation and implementing the definitions -- pt. III. Measurement -- pt. IV. Developing and using indicators -- pt. V. Innovation strategy -- pt. VI. Beyond the horizon -- pt. VII. Challenges.
A great book to understand and foster innovation at all levels: a truly innovative piece of work. Enrico Giovannini, Minister of Labour and Social Policies, Italy. This book brings together original contributions from world leading experts on innovation indicators and is unique in several respects. First, the focus is upon innovation in terms of commercialized products and processes and not on secondary indicators of research or patenting. Second, it combines academic perspectives with user perspectives from industry and international organizations. Third, it strikes a good balance between old and new indicators, opening up new dimensions of innovation for measuring. It is a book worth reading for scholars studying innovation, for policy makers and, not least, for innovation managers in the private sector. Bengt-Åke Lundvall, Aalborg University, Denmark and Sciences-Po, Paris, France. This Handbook comprehensively examines indicators and statistical measurement related to innovation (as defined in the OECD/Eurostat Oslo Manual). It deals with the development and the use of innovation indicators to support decision-making and is written by authors who are practitioners, who know what works and what does not, in order to improve the development of indicators to satisfy future policy needs. This unique volume presents: the historical and geographical context for innovation indicators and measurement practical examples of how measurement is actually undertaken new areas of innovation indicators and measurement, including consumer innovation, public sector innovation and social innovation. This informative Handbook will appeal to policy makers in government departments, statistical offices and research institutes and international organizations such as the EU, OECD and the UN, as well as university departments of economics, sociology, law, science and technology, and public policy
