Blockchain for cybersecurity and privacy : architectures, challenges, and applications
"Blockchain Technology is defined as a decentralized system of distributed registers that are used to record data transactions on multiple computers. The reason this technology has gained popularity is that you can put any digital asset or transaction in the blocking chain, the industry does not matter. Blockchain technology has infiltrated all areas of our lives, from manufacturing to healthcare and beyond. Cybersecurity is an industry that has been significantly affected by this technology and maybe more so in the future. Blockchain for Cybersecurity and Privacy: Architectures, Challenges, and Applications is an invaluable resource to discover the Blockchain applications for cybersecurity and privacy. The purpose of this book is to improve the awareness of readers about Blockchain technology applications for cybersecurity and privacy. This book focuses on the fundamentals, architectures, and challenges of adopting the blockchain for cybersecurity. You will discover different applications of blockchain for cybersecurity in IoT and healthcare. The book also includes some case studies of the blockchain for E-Commerce Online Payment, Retention Payment System, and digital forensics. The book offers comprehensive coverage of the most essential topics, including: Blockchain architectures and challenges Blockchain Threats and Vulnerabilities Blockchain security and potential future use cases Blockchain for securing Internet of Things Blockchain for cybersecurity in Healthcare Blockchain in facilitating payment system security and privacy This book comprises a number of state-of-the-art contributions from both scientists and practitioners working in fields of blockchain technology and cybersecurity. It aspires to provide a relevant reference for students, researchers, engineers, and professionals working in this particular area or those interested in grasping its diverse facets and exploring the latest advances on the blockchain for cybersecurity and privacy"--
