Handbook on the sustainable supply chain
Contents: 1. The handbook on sustainable supply chains: an introduction / Joseph Sarkis -- 2. Sustainability in the globalization era / Sherwat Elwan Ibrahim -- 3. The circular economy and green supply chain management / Junjun Liu, Qinghua Zhu and Yunting Feng -- 4. Diffusion of SSCM: where are we now and where are we going? / Liliane Carmagnac, Valentina Carbone and Valérie Moatti -- 5. The link between operations strategy and sustainable supply chain management / Melek Akın Ateş -- 6. Collaboration and coordination in sustainable supply chains / Amy Z. Zeng and Jing Hou -- 7. Fundamentals of human resource management for environmentally-sustainable supply chains / Charbel Jose Chiappetta Jabbour Ana Beatriz Lopes de Sousa Jabbour -- 8. Building the business case for sustainable supply chains / Laura Meade and Adrien Presley -- 9. Sustainable supplier selection: a process view / Jafar Rezaei -- 10. The interplay of green marketing and sustainable supply chain management / Jing Dai, Hing Kai Chan, Jia Jia Lim, Fangli Zeng -- 11. Consumers' role in the green supply chain / Christopher Groening and Qingyun Zhu -- 12. Sustainable service supply chains / Helen S. Y. Chen, Kee-hung Lai and T. C. E. Cheng -- 13. Ambidexterity and sustainable supply chains / Dara G. Schniederjans and Mehmet G. Yalcin -- 14. Reverse supply chains and product design / Ammar Y. Alqahtani, Aditi D. Joshi and Surendra M. Gupta -- 15. Sustainable supply chain design / Mohsen Varsei -- 16. Lean and green supply chains / Susana G. Azevedo and Helena Carvalho -- 17. Mapping lean manufacturing practices and green manufacturing practices in supply chains / Diego A. Vazquez-Brust and Lucila M. S. Campos -- 18. The critical relationship: sustainability and performance measurement management / Robert Sroufe and Steven A. Melnyk -- 19. Performance measurement in sustainable supply chain management - linking research and practice / Philip Beske-Janssen, Stefan Schaltegger and Sonja Liedke -- 20. Environmental or sustainable supply chain performance measurement standards and certifications / David B. Grant and Sarah Shaw -- 21. Sustainable supply chain management and carbon emissions / Shadi Goodarzi, Behnam Fahimnia and Joseph Sarkis -- 22. Sustainability in logistics / Erika Marsillac and Sarah Hudson -- 23. Transportation and sustainable supply chains / Amulya Gurtu, Cory Searcy and Mohammed Y. Jaber -- 24. Big data application in sustainable supply chains: a transportation industry case / Jiayao Hu, Ming K Lim, Kim Hua Tan and Ming-Lang Tseng -- 25. Sustainable supply chains and energy: where "planet" meets "profit" / Árni Halldórsson, Caroline Sundgren and Jessica Wehner -- 26. Sustainable supply chains and social networks: an overview / Wendy L. Tate and Lisa M. Ellram -- 27. A framework for managing social issues in supply chains / Sadaat Ali Yawar and Stefan Seuring -- 28. Sustainable supplier management in a base of the pyramid environment / Carolin Brix-Asala, Arne Vilmar, Raja Usman Khalid and Stefan Seuring -- 29. Sustainability in humanitarian supply chains / Ira Haavisto and Gyöngyi Kovács -- 30. Sustainable supply chains and regulatory policy / Nicole Darnall, Eric W. Welch and Seong K. Cho -- 31. Multi-tier sustainable supply chain management / Joerg S. Hofstetter and Jörg H. Grimm -- 32. Green supplier development: a review and analysis / Chunguang Bai and Joseph Sarkis -- 33. The role of social enterprises in sustainable supply chains / Ales Jug -- Index.
Supply chain management has long been a feature of industry and commerce but, with increasing demands from consumers, producers are spending more time and money investing in ways to make supply chains more sustainable. This exemplary Handbook provides readers with a comprehensive overview of current research on sustainable supply chain management. Multi-disciplinary in scope, the Handbook includes contributions from over 70 expert authors from a variety of areas including management, engineering, accounting, policy studies, innovation, and marketing. Chapters analyze the three core areas of sustainable supply chain management: environmental, economic, and social. The Handbook explores broad themes such as globalization and general organization strategies as well as examining more specific topics including particular industries, social and regulatory dimensions, and technological advances. Scholars and advanced business and management students will greatly benefit from the depth of analysis in this Handbook as well as the suggestions for directions for future research and practice. Written in an accessible style, it is also ideal for practitioners and government agencies seeking solutions to practical issues regarding sustainable supply chain management
