Research handbook on sport governance
Contents: 1. Research on sport governance: an introduction / Christos Anagnostopoulos and Mathieu Winand -- Part I Principles of good governance in sport -- 2. Assessing sports governance principles and indicators / Jean-Loup Chappelet and Michaël Mrkonjic -- 3. Measuring governance: the sports governance observer / Arnout Geeraert -- 4. Support the implementation of good governance in sport (SIGGS): a European project for National Olympic Committees and national sport federations / Thierry Zintz and Simon Gérard -- 5. SATSport model: an applied and adaptive approach to grassroot sport organisation' governance arrangements / Simone Digennaro, Mark Lowther and Antonio Borgogni -- 6. A cultural perspective on good governance in sport / Vassil Girginov -- 7. Embedding good governance principles in sports governing bodies through a code of ethics: opportunities, pitfalls, and good practices / Els De Waegeneer and Annick Willem -- 8. Intersections of governance and social responsibility in sport / Jonathan Robertson, Stefan Walzel and David Shilbury -- Part II Systemic sport governance -- 9. Governance of sports in Lithuania: empirical findings towards challenging implications / Vilma Čingienė -- 10. Evolution and reformation of China sport governance / Keyu Li and Graham Cuskelly -- 11. International governance of action sports: an organisational legitimacy perspective / Mikhail Batuev and Leigh Robinson -- 12. The governance of the Paralympic movement: an institutional perspective / Simon Gérard, David Legg and Thierry Zintz -- Part III Relationships governance in sport -- 13. Interorganisational network governance in sport / Hagen Wäsche and Anna Gerke -- 14. Breaking down barriers: collaboration in sport governance networks / Ian O'Boyle, David Shibury and Lesley Ferkins -- 15. Examining board-executive relationship in team sport charitable foundations: unpacking trust building through 'exchange currencies' / Christos Anagnostopoulos and Mathieu Winand -- Part IV Sport event governance -- 16. Sport event governance / Milena Parent and Michael Naraine -- 17. The governance of legacy in the Olympic movement: a theoretical framework / Becca Leopkey -- 18. Urban governance of non-mega sport events: a socio-political discourse analysis / James Anderson and Marijke Taks -- Part V Sport governance and businesss implications -- 19. The supporter ownership governance model: empirical insights from English football / Sara Ward and Dan Parnell -- 20. The transformation of German Football Bundesliga Clubs from members' associations towards corporations and their governance implications - the case of Hamburger SV / Stefan Prigge -- 21. China: Emerging football nation, emerging governance issues / Simon Chadwick, Ian Gibson and Tao Jiang -- 22. Olympic brand governance: future research directions / Benoit Seguin and Gashaw Abeza -- Part VI Sport board governance -- 23. Strategies for change: a Presidential perspective on governing the NCAA / Jimmy Smith -- 24. What do you mean it hasn't worked out, yet?: the paradoxes of women in sport governance research / Larena Hoeber and Sally Shaw -- 25. The governance of the board of national governing bodies in high performance sport / Veerle De Bosscher and Popi Sotiriadou -- 26. Succession and good governance / Tracy Taylor and Leigh Robinson -- 27. Board dynamics in nonprofit sport organizations: contemporary research directions / Shannon Kerwin and Alison Doherty -- Part VII Reflections -- 28. Directions for future research in sport governance / Mathieu Winand and Christos Anagnostopoulos -- Index.
Recent scandals across the word of sport can be directly related to poor governance. This Research Handbook gathers the state-of-the-art research on sport governance by leading international scholars on various issues across various sports, offering a vital reference point for advancing research. Illustrating different approaches and perspectives such as good governance principles, systemic governance, political governance and network governance, chapters suggest research-informed practical solutions to current problems within sport organisations. Covering sport event governance, business implications, corporate social responsibility for enhancing good governance and extended board management, specific directions for further research are provided for each topic under examination. This is the essential reference for all sport governance researchers. It will also be insightful for sport governing bodies and administrators looking for advice on improving good governance in sport institutions
