Glucosinolates : properties, recovery, and applications
Glucosinolates: Properties, Recovery and Applications covers all the important aspects of glucosinolates (properties, processing and recovery issues, particular applications). Starting from the metabolism, health effects and biosynthesis of glucosinolates, the book then deals with recovery, analysis and processing issues in order to reveal their potential applications. Bringing the latest advances in the field, the book also covers practical approaches and applications, giving emphasis to their diversity in plants, the debate of "good" and "bad" glucosinolates, biosynthetic pathways and metabolism, the influence of the food supply chain on decomposition and intake, sustainable sources of glucosinolates, processing and cooking effects, and more. Written by a team of chemists, biochemists, food scientists and technologists, this book is a helpful resource for anyone dealing with food science, technology and new product developments in food, natural products and in health industries.
1.The dilemma of "good" and "bad" glucosinolates and the potential to regulate their content /Francesco Di Gioia, José Pinela, Antonio de Haro Bailón, Isabel C.F.R. Fereira, Spyridon A. Petropoulos --2.Biosynthesis and nutritious effects /Quan V. Vo --3.Enzymatic activities behind degradation of glucosinolates /Karol Parchem, Anna Piekarska and Agnieszka Bartoszek --4.Glucosinolates and metabolism /Ibrahim Guillermo Castro-Torres, Víctor Alberto Castro-Torres, Elia Brosla Naranjo-Rodríguez, Miguel Ángel Domínguez-Ortiz --5.Different sources of glucosinolates and their derivatives /Z. Tacer-Caba --6.Processing and cooking effects on glucosinolates and their derivatives /Nieves Baenas, M. Elena Cartea, Diego A. Moreno, María Tortosa, Marta Francisco --7.Analysis of glucosinolates content in food products /Elisabete M.C. Alexandre, Sílvia A. Moreira, Carlos A. Pinto, Manuela Pintado, Jorge A. Saraiva --8.Recovery techniques, stability, and applications of glucosinolates /Charis M. Galanakis --9.Sulforaphane and sulforaphene: Two potential anticancer compounds from glucosinolates /Li Cheng, Kai Wan, Hao Liang, Qipeng Yuan.
