A research agenda for entrepreneurship and innovation
Contents: 1. Introduction / David B. Audretsch, Erik E. Lehmann and Albert N. Link -- 2. Schumpeterian growth regimes / Cristiano Antonelli -- 3. Measuring entrepreneurial impact through alumni impact surveys / Shiri Breznitz, Brendan Hills and Qiantao Zhang -- 4. Academic entrepreneurship: between myth and reality / Alice Civera, Michele Meoli and Silvio Vismara -- 5. Principal investigators and boundary spanning entrepreneurial opportunity recognition: a conceptual framework / James A. Cunningham -- 6. The regional emergence of innovative start-ups: a research agenda / Michael Fritsch -- 7. Public and policy entrepreneurship research: a synthesis of the literature and future perspectives / Heike M. Grimm -- 8. A research agenda for entrepreneurship and innovation: the role of entrepreneurial universities / Maribel Guerrero and David Urbano -- 9. Corporate governance and innovation / Hezun Li, Timurs Umans and Siri Terjesen -- 10. Research opportunities considering student entrepreneurship in university ecosystems / Simon Mosey and Paul Kirkham -- 11. Entrepreneurial leadership in the academic community: a suggested research agenda / Rati Ram, Devrim Göktepe-Hultén, and Rajeev K. Goel -- 12. The power of words and images - towards talking about and seeing entrepreneurship and innovation differently / Friederike Welter -- 13. Artificial intelligence and entrepreneurship: some thoughts for entrepreneurship researchers / Sameeksha Desai -- 14. Entrepreneurship studies: the case for radical change / Mark Casson -- Index.
Elgar Research Agendas outline the future of research in a given area. Leading scholars are given the space to explore their subject in provocative ways, and map out the potential directions of travel. They are relevant but also visionary. Within the span of a generation, innovation and entrepreneurship have emerged as two of the most vital forces in the economy and in society. This Research Agenda highlights new insights and approaches to guide future thinking, research and policy in the area. To accomplish this, the editors have brought together a group of accomplished scholars spanning economics, management, public policy and finance. Drawing on the experiences and insights of leading scholars this Research Agenda covers a broad array of rich and promising topics, including entrepreneurial ecosystems, finance and the role of universities. Focusing on the intersection and overlap between the two disciplines, the Research Agenda begins by establishing the theoretical basis between the two topics, before exploring impact, context, academic entrepreneurship, start-ups, policy and corporate governance. The book concludes with three provocative chapters: Friederike Welter highlighting the power of words and images, Sameeksha Desai discussing the role of artificial intelligence and Mark Casson presenting a case for radical change to how entrepreneurship is studied. Presenting the most salient findings and themes in current literature, A Research Agenda for Entrepreneurship and Innovation is essential for researchers in innovation, as well as policy makers at both the local and national levels influenced by the increasing importance of entrepreneurship and innovation
