Wormholes, Warp Drives and Energy Conditions
Top researchers in the field of gravitation present the state-of-the-art topics outlined in this book, ranging from the stability of rotating wormholes solutions supported by ghost scalar fields, modified gravity applied to wormholes, the study of novel semi-classical and nonlinear energy conditions, to the applications of quantum effects and the superluminal version of the warp drive in modified spacetime. Based on Einstein's field equations, this cutting-edge research area explores the more far-fetched theoretical outcomes of General Relativity and relates them to quantum field theory. This includes quantum energy inequalities, flux energy conditions, and wormhole curvature, and sheds light on not just the theoretical physics but also on the possible applications to warp drives and time travel. This book extensively explores the physical properties and characteristics of these 'exotic spacetimes,' describing in detail the general relativistic geometries that generate closed timelike curves.
Part 1: Traversable wormholes -- 1. Introduction (Francisco Lobo) -- 2. Wormhole basics (Francisco Lobo) -- 3. Rotating wormholes (Jutta Kunz) -- 4. Astrophysical signatures of thin accretion disks in wormhole spacetimes (Tiberiu Harko, Zoltan Kovacs, Francisco Lobo) -- 5. Wormholes in modified theories of gravity (Sergey Sushkov) -- 6. Trapped ghosts as sources for wormholes (Kirill Bronnikov) -- 7. Geons in modified gravity (Gonzalo Olmo, Diego Rubeira-Garcia) -- Part 2: Energy conditions -- 1. Quantum inequalities (Christopher Fewster) -- 2. Semi-classical and nonlinear energy conditions (Prado Martín-Moruno, Matt Visser) -- Part 3: Warp drive -- 1. Warp drive basics (Miguel Alcubierre) -- 2. Probing faster than light travel and Chronology Protection with superluminal warp drives (Carlos Barcelo, Stefano Liberati) -- Part 4: Closed time-like curves -- 1. Time machine basics (Francisco Lobo) -- Part 5: Conclusion (Francisco Lobo).
