Materialities of care : encountering health and illness through artefacts and architecture
Machine generated contents note: 1. Conceptualising 'materialities of care': making visible mundane material culture in health and social care contexts (Christina Buse, Daryl Martin and Sarah Nettleton)  2. Materialities of mundane care and the art of holding one's own (Julie Brownlie and Helen Spandler)  3. Thinking with care infrastructures: people, devices and the home in home blood pressure monitoring (Kate Weiner and Catherine Will)  4. The art and nature of health: a study of therapeutic practice in museums (Gemma Mangione)  5. Exchanging implements: the micro-materialities of multidisciplinary work in the operating theatre (Christian Heath, Paul Luff, Marcus Sanchez-Svensson and Maxim Nicholls)  6. Placing care: embodying architecture in hospital clinics for immigrant and refugee patients (Susan E. Bell)  7. Private finance initiative hospital architecture: towards a political economy of the Royal Liverpool University Hospital (Paul Jones)  8. Dressing disrupted: negotiating care through the materiality of dress in the context of dementia (Christina Buse and Julia Twigg)  9. Family food practices: relationships, materiality and the everyday at the end of life (Julie Ellis)  10. Becoming at home in residential care for older people: a material culture perspective (Melanie Lovatt)  11. Afterword: materialities, care, 'ordinary affects', power and politics (Joanna Latimer)  Index
"Materialities of Care addresses the role of material culture within health and social care encounters, including everyday objects, dress, furniture and architecture. Makes visible the mundane and often unnoticed aspects of material culture and attends to interrelations between materials and care in practice. Examines material practice across a range of clinical and non-clinical spaces including hospitals, hospices, care homes, museums, domestic spaces and community spaces such as shops and tenement stairwells. Addresses fleeting moments of care, as well as choreographed routines that order bodies and materials. Focuses on practice and relations between materials and care as ongoing, emergent and processual International contributions from leading scholars draw attention to methodological approaches for capturing the material and sensory aspects of health and social care encounters"--Provided by publisher
