Poverty in the early church and today : a conversation
23. The "Undeserving Poor" Today: The Rhetoric and Theological Development of a Problematic Category - Hannah Swithinbank, Tearfund, UK 24. Response to Fiona Gregson - Hannah Swithinbank, Tearfund, UK 25. Response to Hannah Swithinbank - Fiona Gregson, Diocese of Birmingham, UK -- 26. The Early Church, The Roman State, and Ancient Civil Society: Whose Responsibility are the Poor?- Christopher M. Hays, Fundaciđn Universitaria Seminario BƯblico de Colombia, Colombia 27. Poverty and the Powers Today - Stephen Timms MP, House of Commons, UK 28. Response to Christopher Hays- Stephen Timms MP, House of Commons, UK 29. Response to Stephen Timms, MP - Christopher M. Hays, Fundaciđn Universitaria Seminario BƯblico de Colombia, Colombia 30. The Poor Will Always be among You: Poverty, Education and the Catholic Ideal - -- Francis Campbell, St. Mary's University, UK -- II. Responding and Reflecting 31. Review: Responding and Summarizing - Craig Blomberg, Denver Seminary, USA -- 32. Between Today and Yesterday: Evidence, Complexity, Poverty and the "Body" of Christ - Francis Davis Select Bibliography Index.
How This Book Works -- Reflecting on Poverty: - Bishop Graham Tomlin -- Foreword: Cardinal Vincent Nichols -- List of Abbreviations List of Contributors -- I. Poverty Then and Now 1. Two Concepts of Poverty: A Theological Analysis - Justin Thacker, Cliff College, UK 2. Poverty and Its Causes in the Early Church - Lynn H. Cohick, Denver Seminary, USA -- 3. Causes of Poverty Today - Katie Harrison, Tearfund, UK -- 4. Response to Lynn H. Cohick - Katie Harrison, Tearfund, UK 5. Dream Better Dreams: Response to Katie Harrison - Lynn H. Cohick, Denver Seminary, USA 6."Do Good to All" (Galatians 6.10): Assets, Capital, and Benefaction in Early Christianity - Bruce W. Longenecker, Baylor University, USA 7. Benefaction Today?- John Coleby, Caritas, UK 8. Response to Bruce Longenecker - John Coleby, Caritas, UK 9. Response to John Coleby - Bruce W. Longenecker, Baylor University, USA 10. Patronage and People: Paul's Perspective in Philippians- Steve Walton, St. Mary's University, UK 11. Patronage Today - Helen Hekel, Tearfund, UK 12. Response to Steve Walton - Helen Hekel, Tearfund, UK 13. Response to Helen Hekel - Steve Walton, St. Mary's University, UK 14. Paul and the Gift to Jerusalem: Overcoming the Problems of the Long-Distance Gift- John M.G. Barclay, University of Durham, UK 15. Raising Funds in One Place, Giving to Another: Gift Distribution Today- Virginia Luckett, Tearfund, UK 16. Response to John Barclay - Virginia Luckett, Tearfund, UK 17. Response to Virginia Luckett - John M.G. Barclay, University of Durham, UK 18. Wealth and Dehumanization: Ezekiel's Oracles against Tyre - Myrto Theocharous, Greek Bible College, Greece 19. Poverty and Dehumanization - Ellie Hughes, Riverbank Trust, UK 20. Response to Myrto Theocharous - Ellie Hughes, Riverbank Trust, UK 21. Response to Ellie Hughes - Myrto Theocharous, Greek Bible College, Greece 22. The "Undeserving Poor" in the Early Church - Fiona J. R. Gregson, Diocese of Birmingham, UK.
This innovative volume focuses on the significance of early Christianity for modern means of addressing poverty, by offering a rigorous study of deprivation and its alleviation in both earliest Christianity and today's world. The contributors seek to present the complex ways in which early Christian ideas and practices relate to modern ideas and practices, and vice versa. In this light, the book covers seven major areas of poverty and its causes, benefaction, patronage, donation, wealth and dehumanization, `the undeserving poor', and responsibility. Each area features an expert in early Christianity in its Jewish and Graeco-Roman settings, paired with an expert in modern strategies for addressing poverty and benefaction; each author engages with the same topic from their respective area of expertise, and responds to their partner's essay. Giving careful attention toboth the continuities and discontinuities between the ancient world and today, the contributors seek to inform and engage church leaders, those working in NGOs concerned with poverty, and all interested in these crucial issues, both Christian and not
