Fermentation microbiology and biotechnology
Fermentation microbiology and biotechnology : central and modern concepts -- Fermentation microbiology and biotechnology : an historical perspective / Mansi El-Mansi -- Microbiology of industrial fermentation : central and modern concepts / Mansi El-Mansi -- Fermentation kinetics : central and modern concepts / Jens Nielsen -- Microbial synthesis of primary metabolites : current trends and future prospects / Arnold I. Demain and Sergio Sanchez -- Microbial synthesis of secondary metabolites and strain improvement : current trends and future prospects / Sergio Sánchez, Beatriz Ruiz-Villafán, Corina D. Ceapa and A.L. Demain -- Flux control analysis and stoichiometric network modeling: current trends and future prospects / Mansi El-Mansi, Gregory Stephanopoulos, and Ross P. Carlson -- Control of metabolite efflux in microbial cell factories : current advances and future prospects / Douglas B. Kell -- Increasing tolerance and robustness of industrial microorganisms : current strategies and future prospects / Rui Pereira and Yun Chen -- Engineering of microorganisms for production of pharmaceutical biomolecules / Adilson José da Silva, Bianca Barquera, and Mattheos A. Gl Koffas -- Enzyme and cofactor engineering : current trends and future prospects in the pharmaceutical and fermentation industries / George N. Bennett and Ka-Yiu San -- Conversion of renewable resources to biofuels and fine chemicals : current trends and future prospects / Muhammad Javed, Namdar Baghaei-Yazdi, Aristos Aristidou, and Brian S. Hartley -- Biorefineries : industrial perspectives and challenges in primary and secondary metabolism / David Michael Mousdale -- Solid-state fermentation of renewable resources : current trends and future prospects / Lalita Devi Gottumukkala, Kuniparambil Rajasree, Reeta Rani Singhania, Carlos Ricardo Soccol, and Ashok Pandey -- Functional genomics : current trends, tools, and future prospects in the fermentation and pharmaceutical industries / Surendra K. Chikara, Toral Joshi, and Mahmoud Mostapha -- Bioreactors : design, operation, and applications / Tony Allman -- Biosensors in bioprocess monitoring and control : current trends and future prospects / Chris E. French -- Immobilization and its applications in biotechnology : current trends and future prospects / Ronnie G. Willaert -- Impact of microtitier plate based fermentations on bioprocess development : recent innovations and future prospects / Leonardo Rios-Solis, Patrick Wilk, and Halim Murni -- Control and monitoring of industrial fermentations : an industrial perspective and recent trends / Gilles Roux, Cesar Arturo Aceves-Lara, Zetao Li, Boutaib Dahhou, and Craig J.L. Gershater.
