The dictionary of health economics
'In his Foreword Tony Culyer says, quoting the Fat Controller from Thomas the Tank Engine, that he wants his book to be "a really useful engine". Well, he's succeeded; it's really useful, and, for me at least, it's a true engine of discovery.'--Julian Le Grand, Richard Titmuss Professor of Social Policy, London School of Economics, UK. 'For anyone who thinks health economics is just economic evaluation and in particular cost-effectiveness analysis, this Dictionary will open their eyes to the breadth of health economics. The Dictionary takes a laudably inclusive approach, covering not just core economics terms but also terms within medicine, epidemiology, and the health sector that economists working in health need to understand. It also includes terms, and useful references, for those working as health economists in low and middle income countries. Any student or teacher should have this at their elbow.'--Anne Mills, London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, UK. This third edition of Anthony Culyer's authoritative The Dictionary of Health Economics brings the material right up to date as well as adding plentiful amounts of new information, with a number of revised definitions. There are now nearly 3,000 entries in this comprehensive work. This third edition includes 250 new references as sources for definitions and examples of practice and the bibliography comprises roughly 1,400 items. Anthony Culyer has refined and made the system of cross-references and internet links even more comprehensive than in previous editions. This Dictionary is as complete a statement as exists anywhere of what it is that every health economist ought to know. Acclaim for the second edition: 'In the second edition of this Dictionary, Culyer, a well-known and highly respected health economist, attempts to define many of the complex health care terms used not only in the field of medicine, but also in the fields of allied health sciences, nursing, public health, and economics. The Dictionary's main strength is its comprehensiveness. It features 2,310 terms used by various national health care systems including those of the US, Australia, Canada, and the UK. The Dictionary clearly identifies and concisely defines each term, and cites current literature that uses the term ... this Dictionary is an extraordinary work, and Culyer should be commended for his effort.'--R.M. Mullner, Choice
