The sea in the literary imagination : global perspectives
This collection explores nautical themes in a variety of literary contexts from multiple cultures. Including contributors from five continents, it emphasizes the universality of human experience with the sea, while focusing on literature that spans a millennium, stretching from medieval romance to the twenty-first-century reimagining of classic literary texts in film. These fresh essays engage in discussions of literature from the UK, the USA, India, Chile, Turkey, Spain, Japan, Colombia, and the Caribbean. Scholars of maritime literature will find the collection interesting for the unique ins
Introduction / Ben P. Robertson, Ekaterina V. Kobeleva, Shannon W. Thompson, and Katona D. Weddle -- European Literature: the Hazards of the Sea -- Floating Ideas: Memory and the Sea in Medieval Romances / Jamie McKinstry -- Ocean of Troubles: Hazards of Seafaring in the Court Records of the House of Trade in Seville in the Late Sixteenth Century: the Sea as Seen from Juridical Literature / A.B. Fernández Castro -- "It seems to float ever--forever--": the Dispersing Ocean in Valperga and Prometheus Unbound / Lucy Johnson -- "The Problem of Longitude": Unplottable Subjects, the Imaginary Pacific, and Queer Seas in Joseph Conrad's "the Planter of Malata" / Alice M. Kelly -- Asian Literature: Seascapes and the Environment -- Ocean as a Space of Maturation in Nagai Kafū's Critique of Modernity / G.M. Follaco -- Women at the Helm: Manasa-Mangal Kavya in Perspective / Nirojita Guha -- Land Ethic and Human-Sea Relations in Yașar Kemal's The Sea-Crossed Fisherman and Sait Faik Abasiyanik's "Sinağrit Baba" and "Death of the Dülger" / Erkin Kiryaman -- South American Literature: the Unknowability of the Sea -- Traveler's Tales: the Sea and Memories of Exile in Marjorie Agosín's Chile / Elena M. De Costa -- Unseen Sea and the Sublime: Some cognitive Aesthetic Conceptualizations in Modernist and Avant-Garde Latin American Poetry / Juan Ignacio Muñoz Zapata -- Transforming the White Whale in Monique Roffey's Archipelago / Danette DiMarco -- North American Literature: Melville and the Sea --Fiction and Verity: Textured Narratives in Herman Melville's Mardi and a Voyage Thither / Kelvin Beliele -- Mermaids as Exotic Others in Melville's South Sea Fiction / Hanna Straß-Senol -- Driving Home Yarns: Oceanic Language and Deconstruction in Melville's Moby-Dick / Megan Barnes -- Spatiality at Sea: the Vortex in Herman Melville's Moby-Dick / Alexandra Meany -- North American Literature: Transcendentalism, Modernism, and the Sea -- Picturing the Ocean Wilderness: Henry David Thoreau's Cape Cod and the Meaning of Progress / Kathleen Healey -- "It wasn't any good diving unless you had a big hammer": Psychoanalyzing Hermingway's "After the Storm" / Paul E. Blom -- Ship of Fools and the Purge of Rejects / Mongia Besbes -- Global Literature: Popular Culture and the Sea -- Young Adult Cli-Fi and the Risen Sea / Tara Moore -- Self-Actualization, Control, and the Kraken: Literary and Film Personalities who Wield Power through a Notorious Sea Monster / Rachel L. Carazo -- Roles of Sea Monsters and Consumption: Retelling Jane Austen, Re-Sensing the Sea, and Creating Sea Sensibility / Rachel L. Carazo -- Literature and the Sea: Final Thoughts -- Literature of the Sea: Lessons Learned / Paul Guajardo.
