The political economy of non-territorial exit : cryptosecession
Contents: Introduction -- Preface -- 1. Economic theory of non-territorial unbundling -- 2. History of an idea -- 3. The political-jurisdictional coase theorem -- 4. Political-jurisdictional possibilities and transitions -- 5. Theory of non-territorial internal exit -- 6. Spontaneous order in the formation of non-territorial political jurisdictions -- Summary and conclusion -- References -- Index.
Territorial political organisation forms the backbone of western liberal democracies. However, political economists are increasingly aware of how this form of government neglects the preferences of citizens, resulting in dramatic conflicts. The Political Economy of Non-Territorial Exit explores the theoretical possibility of 'unbundling' government functions and decentralising territorial governance. Employing a variety of theoretical approaches, including new institutional economics, comparative analysis, public choice and Hayekian political economy, Trent J. MacDonald investigates the prospects of a government that separates its traditional functions and decentralises control to non-territorial jurisdictions. Following the history of political-economic thought, the author uncovers an extensive history of non-territorial governance, and provides insight into present-day examples. He emphasises the political mechanism of 'non-territorial secession' and the emerging phenomenon of 'cryptosecession' as the theoretical future of governance. Through an extension of the Coase theorem, this intricate book examines how political systems and jurisdictions change, developing a new theory of spontaneous order. A provocative and enlightening investigation of modern political organisation, MacDonald's vast study is an ideal theoretical guide for scholars and students of political economy. This book also contains critical ideas for policy-makers seeking guidance for the future of political organisation in an increasingly non-territorial world
