Excel 2013 for Educational and Psychological Statistics : A Guide to Solving Practical Problems
Sample Size, Mean, Standard Deviation, and Standard Error of the Mean -- Random Number Generator -- Confidence Interval About the Mean Using the TINV Function and Hypothesis Testing -- One-Group t-Test for the Mean -- Two-Group t-Test of the Difference of the Means for Independent Groups -- Correlation and Simple Linear Regression -- Multiple Correlation and Multiple Regression -- One-Way Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) -- Appendix A: Answers to End-of-Chapter Practice Problems -- Appendix B: Practice Test -- Appendix C: Answers to Practice Test -- Appendix D: Statistical Formulas -- Appendix E: t-table
This is the first book to show the capabilities of Microsoft Excel to teach educational and psychological statistics effectively. It is a step-by-step exercise-driven guide for students and practitioners who need to master Excel to solve practical problems in education and psychology. If understanding statistics isn’t your strongest suit, you are not especially mathematically-inclined, or if you are wary of computers, this is the right book for you. Excel, a widely available computer program for students and practitioners, is also an effective teaching and learning tool for quantitative analyses in statistics courses. Its powerful computational ability and graphical functions make learning statistics much easier than in years past. However, Excel 2013 for Educational and Psychological Statistics: A Guide to Solving Practical Problems is the first book to capitalize on these improvements by teaching students and practitioners how to apply Excel to statistical techniques necessary in their courses and work. Each chapter explains statistical formulas and directs the reader to use Excel commands to solve specific, easy-to-understand problems in education and psychology. Practice problems are provided at the end of each chapter with their solutions in an appendix. Separately, there is a full Practice Test (with answers in an Appendix) that allows readers to test what they have learned. Includes 166 illustrations in color. At the beginning of his academic career, Prof. Quirk spent six years in educational research at The American Institutes for Research and Educational Testing Service. He then taught Social Psychology, Educational Psychology, and General Psychology at Principia College, and is currently a Professor of Marketing in the George Herbert Walker School of Business & Technology at Webster University based in St. Louis, Missouri (USA) where he teaches Marketing Statistics, Marketing Research, and Pricing Strategies. He has published articles in the Journal of Educational Psychology, Journal of Educational Research, Review of Educational Research, Journal of Educational Measurement, Educational Technology, The Elementary School Journal, Journal of Secondary Education, Educational Horizons, and Phi Delta Kappan. In addition, he has written 60+ textbook supplements in Marketing and Management, published 20+ articles in professional journals, and presented 20+ papers at professional meetings, including annual meetings of The American Educational Research  ...
