Statistics in context
"Statistics in Context offers a fresh approach to teaching statistics. Designed to reduce students' fear of numbers, the text aims to put statistics-wary readers at ease with uncomplicated explanations and practical examples drawn from real research and everyday life. Written in lively, accessible prose, the narrative describes the who, what, when, where, and why, and also the how, of statistics.  DISTINCTIVE FEATURES  * "Everyday Statistics" boxes examine practical applications and relate them to the themes of the chapter * "The Historical Context" features tell the story of how different statistical procedures developed * "CheckPoint "exercises give students the chance to review the material and assess their understanding at the end of each section * "Think About It" boxes challenge students to apply what they have learned to a difficult problem * A variety of figures, tables, and worked examples guide students step by step through the calculations described in the text * Abundant end-of-chapter practice problems give students many opportunities to test their mastery of the procedures described in the text * The "Using Statistical Software" supplement teaches students how to perform statistical analysis using either SPSS or R  "--
Machine generated contents note: -- Chapter 1 Introduction: Statistics--Who Needs Them? -- Chapter 2 Types of Data -- Chapter 3 A Picture Is Worth a Thousand Words: Creating and Interpreting Graphics -- Chapter 4 Measures of Central Tendency: What's So Average about the Mean? -- Chapter 5 Variability: The "Law of Life" -- Chapter 6 Where Am I? Normal Distributions and Standard Scores -- Chapter 7 Basic Probability Theory -- Chapter 8 The Central Limit Theorem and Hypothesis Testing -- Chapter 9 The z-Test -- Chapter 10 The t-Test -- Chapter 11 Analysis of Variance -- Chapter 12 Confidence Intervals and Effect Size: Building a Better Mousetrap -- Chapter 13 Correlation and Regression: Are We Related? -- Chapter 14 The Chi-Square Test -- Chapter 15 Non-parametric Tests -- Chapter 16 Which Test Should I Use and Why?
"Statistics in Context is written in an approachable and appealing conversational style that provides clear and concise coverage for students taking their first, introductory statistics class. The everyday language helps make the material suitable for the wide variety of levels of math competence instructors encounter in an introductory class. The ideas and procedures described in the book are presented to the reader in both their historical and modern contexts, providing students with an understanding of where the ideas came from, and how they are used in research today. Setting the statistics in context helps the statistics (in the words of one reviewer) "come alive and be more real" for the students. The examples used in the text are practical and meaningful making them easy to remember. In addition, the examples in the book and the abundant practice problems incorporate real research questions, helping to set the material in its modern context"--
