Global Governance and Rules for the Post-2015 Era : addressing emerging issues in the global environment
Reforming the International Monetary and Financial Architecture / José Antonio Ocampo -- International Tax Cooperation and Implications of Globalization / Leonce Ndikumana -- Toward New Rules for Science and Technology Policy for Sustainable Development /  Keun Lee and John Mathews -- Global Trade Rules for Supporting Development in the Post-2015 Era / Ana Luiza Cortez and Mehmet Arda -- How Large or Small is the Policy Space? : WTO Regime and Industrial Policy / Keun Lee, Wonkyu Shin, and Hochul Shin -- Managing Labour Mobility : A Missing Pillar of Global Governance / José Antonio Alonso -- Thought for Food : Strengthening Global Governance of Food Security / Rob Vos -- Environmental Agenda in the Context of the Global Governance and Rules for the Post-2015 Era / Claudia Sheinbaum-Pardo -- Human Rights, Economic Governance and International Cooperative Action / Sakiko Fukuda-Parr and Rachael Wyant -- LDC and Other Country Groupings : How Useful are Current Approaches to Classify Countries in a More Heterogeneous Developing World? / José Antonio Alonso, Stephen Klasen and Ana Luiza Cortez.
"Attention is increasingly being paid to the conceptualization of the sustainable development agenda that should guide global development efforts beyond 2015. New trends are shaping the international environment, suggesting that the world emerging from the recent economic and financial crisis will probably be very different from the one we have known so far. The emerging issues demand new concerted responses and new international efforts, which will have to be framed by new rules and more democratic and inclusive mechanisms of global governance. Global Governance and Rules for the Post 2015 Era provides a unique assessment of global rules and governance, a reflection of how global rules have been shaping development experiences and outcomes, an identification of the shortcomings of current global governance mechanisms and innovative suggestions for reforming and improving them. The various chapters analyse whether current rules and governance structures enables the building of effective responses against international problems and promote a fair distribution of development opportunities among countries. This book is a timely contribution to the discussions on a new global development agenda undertaken under the leadership of the United Nations. It reflects the outcome of a research programme by a group of independent development experts brought together by the United Nations Committee for Development Policy (CDP), a subsidiary body of the Economic and Social Council. It will be of interest to policymakers worldwide, experts of international agencies, scholars, students and the wider public."--Bloomsbury Publishing
