Hybrid Nanocomposites for Nanotechnology : Electronic, Optical, Magnetic and Biomedical Applications
"This book will cover the latest advances of polymer-inorganic nanocomposites and will particularly focus on high-added-value applications in fields ranging from electronics, optics, magnetism to biotechnology. Traditionally, organic-inorganic composites are thought of in terms of mechanical properties reinforcement, the polymer-clay system being the typical example. Recently higher value-added applications have been demonstrated opening new industrial perspectives and markets. Focusing this book on electronic, optical, magnetic and bio/medical applications of hybrid nanocomposites where the latest advances are critically reviewed is clearly a unique feature of the book. Various issues in nanocomposite synthesis, including the production scale-up, will precede coverage of the latest advances in the aforementioned range of applications. The reader will get a solid grasp of the state-of-the-art and of the remaining challenges in the field of non-traditional applications of hybrid nanocomposites. List of topics: Synthesis methods and issues, production scaling up: There are several methods for making organic-inorganic nanocomposites on lab-scale, for production up-scaling, quality control. Each chapter will concentrate on one of them, giving details and highlighting issues. Characterizations methods: Characterization methods will depend on the intended applications, focusing on the quality control after synthesis of organic-inorganic nanocomposites. Electronic applications: These applications encompass resists for microelectronics, low-k/high-k dielectric films. Optical applications /Photonics: These applications encompass linear and non-linear optical devices, encapsulation of active optical devices. Magnetic applications: These applications encompass non-traditional recording media (e.g. advanced tapes) and new magnetic materials. Bio/medical applications: These ""hot"" applications encompass bio-resists, tissue engineering, biocompatibility, bio-sensors."
