Storm and cloud dynamics : the dynamics of clouds and precipitating mesoscale systems
This book focuses on the dynamics of clouds and of precipitating mesoscale meteorological systems. Clouds and precipitating mesoscale systems represent some of the most important and scientifically exciting weather systems in the world. These are the systems that produce torrential rains, severe winds including downburst and tornadoes, hail, thunder and lightning, and major snow storms. Forecasting such storms represents a major challenge since they are too small to be adequately resolved by conventional observing networks and numerical prediction models. * Provides a complete treatment of clouds integrating the analysis of air motions with cloud structure, microphysics, and precipitation mechanics * Describes and explains the basic types of clouds and cloud systems that occur in the atmosphere-fog, stratus, stratocumulus, altocumulus, altostratus, cirrus, thunderstorms, tornadoes, waterspouts, orographically induced clouds, mesoscale convection complexes, hurricanes, fronts, and extratropical cyclones * Summarizes the fundamentals, both observational and theoretical, of atmospheric dynamics, thermodynamics, cloud microphysics, and radar meteorology, allowing each type of cloud to be examined in depth * Integrates the latest field observations, numerical model simulations, and theory * Supplies a theoretical treatment suitable for the advanced undergraduate or graduate level, as well as post-graduate
Storm and Cloud Dynamics. Chapter 1- Clouds. Part I: Basic Equations and Parameterizations. Chapter 2 -- Fundamental Equations Governing Cloud Processes. Chapter 3 -- On Averaging. Chapter 4 -- The Parameterization or Modeling of Microphysical Processes in Clouds. Chapter 5 -- Radiative Transfer in a Cloudy Atmosphere and Its Parameterization. Part II: The Dynamics of Clouds. Chapter 6 -- Boundary Layer Clouds. Chapter 7 -- Cumulus Clouds. Chapter 8 -- Cumulonimbus Clouds and Severe Convective Storms. Chapter 9 -- Mesoscale Convective Systems and Tropical Cyclones. Chapter 10 -- Clouds associated with Extratropical Cyclones. Chapter 11 -- Orographic Clouds and Precipitation. Chapter 12 -- Overview of Cloud Impacts on Climate
