Oracle SQL Tuning with Oracle SQLTXPLAIN : Oracle Database 12c Edition
Learn through this practical guide to SQL tuning how Oracle's own experts do it, using a freely downloadable tool called SQLTXPLAIN. This new edition has been expanded to include AWR, Oracle 12c Statistics, interpretation of SQL Monitor reports, Parallel execution, and Exadata-related features. Reading this book and using SQL helps you learn to tune even the most complex SQL, and you'll learn to do it quickly, without the huge learning curve usually associated with tuning as a whole. Firmly based in real-world problems, this book helps you reclaim system resources and avoid the most common bottleneck in overall performance, badly tuned SQL. You'll learn how the optimizer works, how to take advantage of its latest features, and when it's better to turn them off. Best of all, the book is updated to cover the very latest feature set in Oracle Database 12c. Covers AWR report integration Helps with SQL Monitor Report Interpretation Provides a reliable method that is repeatable Shows the very latest tuning features in Oracle Database 12c Enables the building of test cases without affecting production What You Will Learn: Identify how and why complex SQL has gone wrong Correctly interpret AWR reports generated via SQLTXPLAIN Collect the best statistics for your environment Know when to invoke built-in tuning facilities Recognize when tuning is not the solution Spot the steps in a SQL statement's execution plan that are critical to performance of that statement Modify your SQL to solve performance problems and increase the speed and throughput of production database systems
1. Introduction -- 2. AWR: Your Guide on What to do Next -- 3. The Cost-Based Optimizer Environment -- 4. How Object Statistics Can Make Your Execution Plan Wrong -- 5. How Skewness Can Make Your Execution Times Variable -- 6. Collecting Good Oracle 12c Statistics -- 7. Tracing CBO Decisions, Hints and Query Transformations using 10053 -- 8. Forcing Execution Plans Through Profiles -- 9. Adaptive Cursor Sharing -- 10. How To Work with Adaptive Plans -- 11. Dynamic Statistics -- 12. Directives and Statistics Feedback -- 13. Parallel Execution -- 14. SQL Monitor Active Reports -- 15. Using SQLTXPLAIN with an Active Data Environment -- 16. Building Good Test Cases -- 17. Using XPLORE to Investigate Unexpected Plan Changes -- 18. Trace Files, TRCANLZR and Modifying SQLT Behavior -- 19. Comparing Execution Plans -- 20. Running a Health Check -- 21. The Final Word -- 22. Appendix A. Installing SQLTXPLAIN -- 23. Appendix B. The CBO Parameters (11.2.0.1) -- 24. Appendix C. Tool Configuration Parameters and the Express Methods
