Handbook of race, racism, and the developing child
This text elucidates the unique developmental and social features of race and racism in children's lives, covering the recent advances in understanding the experience of prejudice on a child's life and its effects on their development
Introduction : Race, racism, and the developing child / Stephen M. Quintana and Clark McKown -- Racial perspective taking ability : developmental, theoretical, and empirical trends / Stephen M. Quintana -- Children's developing conceptions of race / Lawrence A. Hirschfeld -- A social-cognitive developmental theory of prejudice / Frances E. Aboud -- Applying social identity and self-categorization theories to children's racial, ethnic, national and state identifications and attitudes / Martyn Barrett and Stephanie C. Davis -- Lay theories and intergroup relations / Sheri R. Levy and Dina M. Karafantis -- Children's perceptions of racial and ethnic discrimination : differences across children and contexts / Christia Spears Brown -- Theory, research, and models / William E. Cross and T. Binta Cross -- Everyday experiences of ethnic and racial identity among adolescents and young adults / Tiffany Yip -- Racial identification among multiracial youth : implications for adjustment / Melissa R. Herman -- How to catch a moonbeam : a mixed-methods approach to understanding ethnic socialization processes in ethnically diverse families / Diane Hughes [and others] -- Racial discrimination and the mental health of African American adolescents / Shauna M. Cooper [and others] -- Social identity development and children's ethnic attitudes in Australia / Drew Nesdale -- Perceived discrimination, ethnic minority identity, and self-esteem / Maykel Verkuyten -- Social influences on the ethnic achievement gap / Clark McKown and Michael J. Strambler -- The impact of race on children's occupational aspirations / Julie Milligan Hughes and Rebecca S. Bigler -- Children's and adolescents' decision-making about intergroup peer relationships / Heidi McGlothlin, Christina Edmonds, and Melanie Killen -- Acquisition and development of a shared psychological intergroup repertoire in a context of intractable conflict / Yona Teichman and Daniel Bar-Tal.
