Multicultural education : issues and perspectives
"Multicultural Education: Issues and Perspectives, 10e, is designed to help current and future educators acquire the concepts, paradigms, and explanations needed to become effective practitioners in culturally, racially, linguistically, and social-class diverse classrooms and schools. An important goal of this book is to help teachers attain a sophisticated understanding of the concept of culture and to view race, class, gender, social class, and exceptionality as interacting concepts rather than as separate and distinct. Consequently, intersectionality--or how race, class, gender, and exceptionality are fluid variables that interact in complex ways--is an overarching concept in this book. Racial, cultural, ethnic, linguistic, and religious diversity presents both opportunities and challenges to educators. Diversity continues to increase in the United States. There is a wide and growing ethnic, cultural, social-class, and linguistic gap between most of the nation's teachers and their students. Teachers are faced with both the challenges and opportunities of dealing with diversity creatively and constructively in their classrooms and schools"--
Multicultural education : characteristics and goals / James A. Banks -- Culture, teaching, and learning / Christina Convertino, Bradley A. Levinson, and Norma González -- Social class and education / Lois Weis, Seong Won Han, and Hyunmyung Jo -- Christian nation or pluralistic culture : religion in American life / Charles H. Lippy -- Gender bias : past, present, and future / David Sadker, Karen Zittleman, and Melissa Koch -- Classrooms for diversity : rethinking curriculum and pedagogy / Mary Kay Thompson Tetreault -- Queer lessons : sexual and gender minorities in multicultural education / Cris Mayo -- Approaches to multicultural curriculum reform / James A. Banks -- Backstage racism : implications for teaching / Leslie H. Picca and Ruth Thompson-Miller -- Language diversity and schooling / Rachel Snyder and Manka M. Varghese -- Civic education for non-citizen and citizen students / James A. Banks -- Educational equality for students with disabilities / Sara C. Bicard and William L. Heward -- Culturally responsive special education in inclusive schools / Luanna H. Meyer, Hyun-Sook Park, and Saili Kulkarni -- School reform and student learning : a multicultural perspective / Sonia Nieto and Patty Bode -- Communities, families, and educators working together for school improvement / Cherry A. McGee Banks -- Classroom Aasessment and diversity / Catherine S. Taylor and Susan B. Nolen.
