The art of digital marketing : the defentitive guide to creating strategic, targeted and measurable online campaigns
"The premier guide to digital marketing that works, and a solid framework for success  The Digital Marketing Playbook is the comprehensive guide to cracking the digital marketing 'code,' and reaching, engaging, and serving the empowered consumer. Based on the industry's leading certification from the Digital Marketing Institute (DMI), this book presents an innovative methodology for successful digital marketing: start with the customer and work backwards. A campaign is only effective as it is reflective of the consumer's wants, needs, preferences, and inclinations; the DMI framework provides structured, implementable, iterative direction for getting it right every time. The heart of the framework is a three-step process called the 3i Principles: Initiate, Iterate, and Integrate. This simple idea translates into higher engagement, real customer interaction, and multichannel campaigns that extend even into traditional marketing channels.  The evolution of digital marketing isn't really about the brands; it's about consumers exercising more control over their choices. This book demonstrates how using this single realization as a starting point helps you build and implement more effective campaigns.  Get inside the customer's head with deep consumer research  Constantly improve your campaigns based on feedback and interactions  Integrate digital activities across channels, including traditional marketing  Build campaigns based on customer choice and control   Digital marketing turns traditional marketing models on their heads. Instead of telling the customer what to think, you find out what they already think and go from there. Instead of front-loading resources, you continually adjust your approach based on real interactions with real customers every day. Digital marketing operates within its own paradigm, and The Digital Marketing Playbook opens the door for your next campaign"--
"The Digital Marketing Playbook is based off the Digital Marketing Institute's introductory program and provides an innovative methodology for implementing digital marketing. The principle behind the book can best be summed up as "Start with the customer and work backwards". Digital marketing fundamentally is the story of the empowered consumer. The evolution of the Internet is not about brands like Google or Facebook or Apple, it's actually about the evolution of consumer control over their choices and their existence. So the impact or effectiveness of any digital marketing campaign is only as good as the extent to which it takes into account and bases its activities on an empowered digital consumer. The Digital Marketing Playbook provides a structured, implementable, iterative framework that teaches people how to implement and manage digital marketing. It's based on a three-step process called the 3i Principles: Initiate, Iterate, and Integrate. - INITIATE: A digital campaign is only as strong as the time you spend interacting with the customer to find out what they want, where they are online, and how they like to be engaged with. - ITERATE: The digital model turns traditional marketing models on their head. Most traditional campaigns adopt a big bang approach that require a front loading of investment and resources. Digital marketing is an iterative, ongoing, always improving process based on customer interactions and outcomes. - INTEGRATE: The third and crucial step in the process is about how it is crucial to integrate digital activities across various channels and also the means by which they are integrated with traditional marketing channels"--
Machine generated contents note:  Preface 1 An Introduction to Digital Marketing What Makes This Book Different? Start with the Customer and Work Backwards What Are the 3i Principles? 2 Search Engine Optimization An Introduction Search Engine Result Pages: Positioning Search Behavior Stage 1: Goals and Benefits Stage 2: On-Page Optimization Stage 3: Off-Page Optimization Stage 4: Analysis and Iteration So, What Have You Learned in This Chapter? 3 Pay per Click An Introduction Stage 1: Goals Stage 2: Setup Stage 3: Manage Stage 4: Analysis and Iteration So, What Have You Learned in This Chapter? 4 Digital Display Advertising An Introduction Display Advertising: An Industry Overview Stage 1: Define Stage 2: Format Stage 3: Configure Stage 4: Analyze So, What Have You Learned in This Chapter? 5 Email Marketing An Introduction Stage 1: Data--Email Marketing Process Stage 2: Design and Content Stage 3: Delivery Stage 4: Discovery So, What Have You Learned in This Chapter? 6 Social Media Marketing (Part 1) An Introduction Stage 1: Goals Stage 2: Channels So, What Have You Learned in This Chapter? 7 Social Media Marketing (Part 2) An Introduction Stage 3: Implementation Stage 4: Analyze Laws and Guidelines So, What Have You Learned in This Chapter? 8 Mobile Marketing An Introduction Stage 1: Opportunity Stage 2: Optimize Stage 3: Advertise Stage 4: Analyze So, What Have You Learned in This Chapter? 9 Analytics An Introduction Stage 1: Goals Stage 2: Setup Stage 3: Monitor Stage 4: Analysis So, What Have You Learned in This Chapter? 10 Strategy and Planning An Introduction Stage 1: Approach Stage 2: Audience Stage 3: Activities Stage 4: Analysis So, What Have You Learned in This Chapter? 11 Conclusion Acknowledgments Glossary Additional Resources About the Digital Marketing Institute About the Author Index
