Beginning Java 8 Fundamentals : Language Syntax, Arrays, Data Types, Objects, and Regular Expressions
Provides a comprehensive approach to learning the Java programming language, especially the object-oriented fundamentals necessary at all levels of Java development. Provides over 90 diagrams and 240 complete programs to help beginners and intermediate level programmers learn the topics faster. Starting with basic programming concepts, the author covers writing a Java program step-by-step. The book continues with a series of foundation topics, including using data types, working with operators, and writing statements in Java. These basics lead onto the heart of the Java language, object-oriented programming. Additional topics include: what are classes and objects; how to do exception handling, assertions, strings and dates, and object formatting; what are regular expressions and how to use them; how to work with arrays, interfaces, enums, and inheritance; and how to deploy Java applications on memory-constrained devices using compact profiles. This book is for readers who are new to Java programming, who may have some or even no prior programming experience
Beginning Java 8 Fundamentals provides a comprehensive approach to learning the Java programming language, especially the object-oriented fundamentals necessary at all levels of Java development. Author Kishori Sharan provides over 90 diagrams and 240 complete programs to help beginners and intermediate level programmers learn the topics faster. Starting with basic programming concepts, the author walks you through writing your first Java program step-by-step. Armed with that practical experience, you'll be ready to learn the core of the Java language. The book continues with a series of foundation topics, including using data types, working with operators, and writing statements in Java. These basics lead onto the heart of the Java language: object-oriented programming. By learning topics such as classes, objects, interfaces, and inheritance you'll have a good understanding of Java's object-oriented model. The final collection of topics takes what you've learned and turns you into a real Java programmer. You'll see how to take the power of object-oriented programming and write programs that can handle errors and exceptions, process strings and dates, format data, and work with arrays to manipulate data
