The French revolution as a moment of respatialization
Frontmatter -- Preface -- Contents -- 1. Explaining Revolutionary Upheaval: From Internal Societal Developments to Global Processes of Respatialization / Maruschke, Megan / Middell, Matthias -- Part I: Expanding the Scope of the French Revolution -- 2. Why did France want Louisiana Back? / Covo, Manuel -- 3. The French Revolution as a Period of Territorialization of the Colonial Empire? A Southern Indian Ocean Perspective / Tricoire, Damien -- 4. Black Rebels and Royal Auxiliaries Before, During, and After the French Revolution / Landers, Jane -- Part II: The Impact of the French Revolution -- 5. The French Revolution in Indian Country: Reconsidering the Reach and Place of Atlantic Upheaval / Crouch, Christian Ayne -- 6. Mobility, Circulation, Spatial Configurations, and Respatialization in the Wake of the Haitian Revolution: A View from New Granada’s Shores / Bassi, Ernesto -- 7. Islands in Turmoil: The Azores during the Atlantic Revolutionary Cycle / Rodrigues, José Damião -- 8. The Respatialization of Cypriot Insularity during the Age of Revolutions / Hadjikyriacou, Antonis -- Part III: The New Spatial Organization of Societies -- 9. The Reorganization of Administrative Space in France and its Colonies / Forrest, Alan -- 10. (Re)spatialization and its Limits: Territory and Descent, Ideology and Pragmatism in Definitions of Citizenship / Fahrmeir, Andreas -- 11. The Respatialization of Italy between French Republics and Napoleonic Domination / Fiore, Laura di -- 12. From Empire to Republics: The Collapse of the Spanish Monarchy and the Respatialization of America / Morelli, Federica -- Authors -- Index
The French Revolution has primarily been understood as a national event that also had a lasting impact in Europe and in the Atlantic world. Recently, historiography has increasingly emphasized how France’s overseas colonies also influenced the contours of the French Revolution. This volume examines the effects of both dimensions on the reorganization of spatial formats and spatial orders in France and in other societies. It departs from the assumption that revolutions shatter not only the political and economic old regime order at home but, in an increasingly interdependent world, also result in processes of respatialization. The French Revolution, therefore, is analysed as a key event in a global history that seeks to account for the shifting spatial organization of societies on a transregional scale
