Social innovation : comparative perspectives
Social Innovation: Comparative Perspectives investigates socio-economic impact. Since it is hard to establish causality and to measure social properties when investigating impact, especially at the level of society, the book narrows down impact to one priority aspect: social innovation – understood as organizations’ capacity to generate novel ideas, ways and means of doing things, of addressing public and social problems of many kinds. This volume’s primary assertion is that the Third Sector, specifically through stimulating civic involvement, is best placed to produce social innovation, outperforming business firms and state agencies in this regard. By investigating actor contributions to social innovation across seven fields of activity, Social innovation: Comparative Perspectives develops our understanding of why and how the Third Sector is central to functioning, cohesive and viable societies. This volume is based on contributions of the project "ITSSOIN – Impact of the Third Sector as Social Innovation" funded by the European Commission under the 7th framework programme. It will be of insight across disciplines, in particular to the growing social innovation community, innovation researchers more generally and to non-profit scholars. The practical relevance of the book will be of interest to European and national policy makers and practitioners across different sectors.
Introduction : social innovation -- what is it and who makes it? / Gorgi Krlev, Helmut K. Anheier, Georg Mildenberger -- Research strategy : identifying the actors -- an open approach / Gorgi Krlev, Helmut K. Anheier, Georg Mildenberger -- Methods : a process tracing of social innovations in 7 fields of activity across Europe / Gorgi Krlev, Helmut K. Anheier, Georg Mildenberger -- Arts & culture : arts for spatial rejuvenation / Giulia Cancellieri, Alex Turrini, María José Sanzo Perez, Noelia Salido-Andres, Jeanet Kullberg, Aurélie Cognat -- Social services : new governance arrangements / Marta Rey-Garcia, Ana Felgueiras, Annette Bauer, Torbjörn Einarsson, Giulia Cancellieri -- Health care : the recovery approach to mental health / Annette Bauer, Vladimir Hyanek, Maria Figueroa, Sarah Sandford -- Environmental sustainability : promoting public spaces for bicycle use / Maria Figueroa, Jiri Navratil, Alex Turrini, Gorgi Krlev -- Consumer protection : online financial education / Vladimir Hyanek, Jiri Navratil, Klára Placier, Maria Figueroa, Begoña Alvarez Garcia, Luis Ignacio Alvarez Gonzalez -- Work integration : cross-sector partnerships / Bernard Leca, Sarah Sandford, Aurélie Cognat, Anne-Claire Pache, Vanessa Mato Santiso, Vladimir Hyanek, Gorgi Krlev -- Community development : self-organised integration of refugees / Wouter Mensink, Elisa Ricciuti, Lucia Cemová, Annette Bauer -- Results : the comparative analysis / Gorgi Krlev, Helmut K. Anheier, Georg Mildenberger -- Conclusions and implications for research, policy and practice / Gorgi Krlev, Helmut K. Anheier, Georg Mildenberger.
