The Cambridge handbook of bilingual processing
"How does a human acquire, comprehend, produce and control multiple languages with just the power of one mind? What are the cognitive consequences of being a bilingual? These are just a few of the intriguing questions at the core of studying bilingualism from psycholinguistic and neurocognitive perspectives. Bringing together some of the world's leading experts in bilingualism, cognitive psychology and language acquisition, The Cambridge Handbook of Bilingual Processing explores these questions by presenting a clear overview of current theories and findings in bilingual processing. This comprehensive handbook is organized around overarching thematic areas including theories and methodologies, acquisition and development, comprehension and representation, production, control, and the cognitive consequences of bilingualism. The handbook serves as an informative overview for researchers interested in cognitive bilingualism and the logic of theoretical and experimental approaches to language science. It also functions as an instrumental source of readings for anyone interested in bilingual processing"--
"How does a bilingual acquire, comprehend, produce, and control multiple languages in one mind? What are some of the cognitive and neurocognitive consequences of being a bilingual? These are just a few of the intriguing theoretical questions at the core of studying bilingualism from psycholinguistic and neurocognitive perspectives. For decades, researchers have been intrigued by how the human mind processes multiple languages. With intensified research efforts have come insightful inquiries, pioneering theories, and implications for future research. Perhaps an example is one the earliest and most studied questions related to psycholinguistic perspectives of bilingualism: Whether humans have a separate or shared (whether fully- or partially-shared) system for the representation and cognitive processing of multiple languages (Kolers, 1963; McCormack, 1977; Weinreich, 1953). Although much progress has been made, this question will continue to be one of many topics of interest in this handbook"--
