Deploying Raspberry Pi in the Classroom
This book is for anyone who’s looking to deploy Raspberry Pi computers in a classroom or lab situation and explains how to navigate the hardware and software choices you face. Deploying Raspberry Pi in the Classroom equips you with the skills and knowledge to plan and execute a deployment of Raspberry Pi computers in the classroom. Teachers and IT administrators at schools will see how to set up the hardware and software swiftly on your own or with the help of your students. Step-by-step instructions and practical examples walk you through building your Raspberry Pi workstations and your network, managing the computers and the network, and troubleshooting any problems that arise. This book offers several points to involve your students through hands-on activities. These activities are designed to benefit your beginner and older or more able students alike. Make Deploying Raspberry Pi in the Classroom a part of you instructional library today
This book is for anyone who's looking to deploy Raspberry Pi computers in a classroom or lab situation and explains how to navigate the hardware and software choices you face. Deploying Raspberry Pi in the Classroomequips you with the skills and knowledge to plan and execute a deployment of Raspberry Pi computers in the classroom. Teachers and IT administrators at schools will see how to set up the hardware and software swiftly on your own or with the help of your students.  Step-by-step instructions and practical examples walk you through building your Raspberry Pi workstations and your network, managing the computers and the network, and troubleshooting any problems that arise.This book offers several points to involve your students through hands-on activities. These activities are designed to benefit your beginner and older or more able students alike. Make Deploying Raspberry Pi in the Classrooma part of you instructional library today. What you will learn:How to put an easily-manageable computer on each desk for students to learn Internet use and essential office software skillsHow to image, configure, and plan a classroom deployment of Raspberry Pi computersTips, tricks, and techniques for managing your classroom Raspberry Pi computers and keeping them up and running smoothly and efficientlyWho this book is for:Primary audience would be teachers and IT administrators at schools or colleges. It will also appeal to administrators at social clubs or organizations that provide less formal tuition or simply provide Internet access. Guy Hart-Davis is the author of more than 100 computer books, including several books from Apress-among them Learn Office 2016 for Mac, Learn Excel 2016 for Mac, and Pro Office for iPad.
