Tullio Regge : an eclectic genius : from quantum gravity to computer play
"This volume of original articles, collected papers and commentaries by contemporary scholars illustrates the work of Tullio Regge, a giant in the panorama of theoretical physics of the second half of the 20th century, probably the most influential Italian physicist after Enrico Fermi. His brilliant contributions to quantum theory and to general relativity have marked significant turning points in the development of scientific knowledge: Regge poles, Regge behaviour, Regge calculus and his geometric approach to general relativity and its extensions, continuing to have a profound impact on the work of the large theoretical community today. Moreover, his public engagement for the dissemination of scientific culture, his mastering of multimedia technology for outreach and play, and his support for important social causes such as the fight against pseudosciences and the rights of the disabled make him a charismatic character across time, space and disciplines"--
Inhaltsverzeichnis: Introduction to Regge and Wheeler "Stability of a Schwarzschild singularity" / Kip S. Thorne -- Stability of a Schwarzschild singularity / Tullio Regge and John A. Wheeler -- Regge poles and their unexpected offsprings / Gabriele Veneziano -- The long road from Regge poles to the LHC / V. Del Duca and L. Magnea -- Introduction to complex orbital momenta / Tullio Regge -- Bound states, shadow states and mandelstam representation / Tullio Regge -- S-matrix and Feynman amplitudes / Giampiero Passarino -- Old problems and new hopes in S-matrix theory / Tullio Regge -- The Ponzano-Regge model / Annalisa Marzuoli -- Semiclassical limit of Racah coefficients / G. Ponzano and T. Regge -- Simplicial gravity with coordinates / A. D'Adda -- General relativity without coordinates / T. Regge -- Regge-Teitelboim analysis of the symmetries of electromagnetic and gravitational fields on asymptotically null spacelike surfaces / C. Bunster, A. Gomberoff and A. Perez -- Role of surface integrals in the Hamiltonian formulation of general relativity / Tullio Regge and Claudio Teitelboim -- Quantum vortices, quantum knots : intertwining physics, topology and algebra / Mario Rasetti -- Unified approach to strings and vortices with soliton solutions / Fernando Lund and Tullio Regge -- Geometric supergravity / R. D'Auria -- Integrating supergravity / Leonardo Castellani -- Gauge theory of gravity and supergravity on a group manifold / Yuval Ne'eman and Tullio Regge -- Gravity and supergravity as gauge theories on a group manifold / Yuval Ne'eman and Tullio Regge -- 2+1 dimensional gravity / J.E. Nelson -- Homotopy groups and (2+1)-dimensional quantum de Sitter gravity / J.E. Nelson, T. Regge and F. Zertuche -- (2+1) quantum gravity / J.E. Nelson and T. Regge -- Introduction to the paper "Duality group for Calabi-Yau two-moduli space" / A. Ceresole and R. D'Auria -- Duality group for Calabi-Yau two-moduli space / Anna Ceresole, Riccardo D'Auria and Tullio Regge -- Tullio Regge's legacy : Regge calculus and discrete (quantum) gravity / J.W. Barrett, D. Oriti and Ruth M. Williams -- Discrete structures in gravity / Tullio Regge and Ruth M. Williams -- Regge multimedial science populariser / Piero Bianucci -- Regge's cartoon physics / Federico Tibone -- Tullio Regge : his imprint on science popularization in Italy / G. Peruzzi -- Some reminiscences about Tullio Regge / Sergio Ferrara -- Tullio Regge from a son's perspective / Daniele Regg.
