The university and the economy : pathways to growth and economic development
1. Introduction : the university, a complex institution -- 2. The university and the economy : a multi-faceted relationship -- 3. Higher education and economic welfare -- 4. The economic role and impact of university research -- 5. Measuring universities' performances : an international comparison -- 6. University funding and research assessment : an analysis of Italian and British cases -- 7. The governance and spatial dynamics of university-industry knowledge transfer -- 8. Conclusions : governance and funding models for universities in transition
The University and the Economy provides an in-depth exploration of the many ways in which universities contribute to economic development and growth. By providing readers with theoretical tools and evidence to explain the means by which university activities impact the economic system, the book offers a robust analysis of the strengths and weaknesses of specific university systems. In offering a solid foundation of conceptual and statistical knowledge, this book supports the current debate on the role of the university in the contemporary economy. It also offers insights to enhance understanding of why some university systems are not contributing to their economies as well as others. The book adopts an economic perspective, which allows the actions of universities, as well as the individuals who study and work within them, to be analysed in the context of economic models of behaviour. From this perspective, it explains the organization, governance and funding of universities' activities and explores how these could be structured to improve their efficiency and effectiveness. Academics, policymakers, managers and professionals working in universities will find a wealth of valuable information in this book. It will also be of interest to undergraduate and postgraduate students of science and technology policy, higher education economics and the economics and management of innovation
