UNESCO biosphere reserves : supporting biocultural diversity, sustainability and society
Introducing UNESCO biosphere reserves / Maureen G. Reed and Martin F. Price -- Conceptual origins and first-generation biosphere reserves / Maureen G. Reed -- Biosphere reserves from Seville, 1995 to 2030 : a global network of sites of excellence to address regional and global imperatives / Meriem Bouamrane, Peter Dogse, and Martin F. Price -- The Mexican biosphere reserves : landscape and sustainability / Sergio Guevara Sada -- The Chilean biosphere reserves network as a model for sustainability? : challenges towards regenerative development, education, biocultural ethics and eco-social peace / Andrés Moreira-Muñoz, Francisca Carvajal, Sergio Elórtegui and Ricardo Rozzi -- Perspectives on growth and change in Canada's 18 UNESCO biosphere reserves / Pamela Shaw, Monica Shore, Eleanor Bennett and Maureen G. Reed -- The evolution of biosphere reserves in the United Kingdom / Martin F. Price -- Meeting the challenge of sustainable development in biosphere reserves : analyzing the knowledge used to establish Swedish biosphere reserves / Tomas Kjellqvist, Romina Rodela and Kari Lehtilä -- The French biosphere reserves : looking for ecological solidarity and stewardship / Raphaël Mathevet and Catherine Cibien -- The more institutional models, the more challenges : biosphere reserves in the Czech Republic / Jan Tesitel and Drahomira Kusova -- Sense and sustainability : the story of biosphere reserves in Lebanon / Diane A. Matar and Brandon P. Anthony -- Adapting to socio-ecological pressures using sustainability science in Egyptian biosphere reserves / Boshra Salem and Caroline King -- Sustainability at the centres of origin : lessons from UNESCO biosphere reserves in Ethiopia / Tadesse Woldemariam Gole, Svane Bender, Rolf D. Sprung, Solomon Kebede, Teowdroes Kassahun, Alemayehu Negussie, Kerya Yasin and Motuma Tafa -- Innovative implementation of the UNESCO MAB Programme in South Africa : towards the advancement of sustainable landscapes / Ruida Pool-Stanvliet and Kaera Coetzer-Hanack -- Transdisciplinary approaches for the reactivation of Japanese biosphere reserves / Hiroyuki Matsuda, Shinsuke Nakamura and Tetsu Sato -- Biosphere reserves in Vietnam : management challenges / Van Cuong Chu, Peter Dart, Nguyen Manh Ha, Vo Thi Minh Le and Marc Hockings -- Man and the biosphere programme in China : sustaining the community of life over four decades / Wang Ding and Han Qunli -- The four stages of biosphere reserves in Australia : a retro-and prospective / Peter Bridgewater -- Integrating science and local knowledge to strengthen biosphere reserve management / Marc Hockings, Ian Lilley, Diane Matar, Nigel Dudley and Rob Markham -- Biosphere reserves, ideal sites to implement holistic approaches in regenerative development / Tania Moreno and Eduard Müller -- Co-creation of sustainable development knowledge in biosphere reserves / Miren Onaindia, Cristina Herero, Alberto Hernández, José Vicente de Lucio, Antonio Pou, Juana Barber, Tomás Rueda, Bernardo Varela, Benedicta Rodríges and Aquilino Miguélez -- Implementation of social-ecological management approaches in biosphere reserves in the Mediterranean Basin / Mario Torralba, María García-Martín, Cristina Quintas-Soriano, Franziska Wolpert and Tobias Plieninger -- Participatory learning for transdisciplinary science in biosphere regions : a modified role for universities / Heike Walk, Vera Luthardt and Benjamin Noelting - Embracing cultures in ecosystem governance in biosphere reserves : slowing down the pace / Liette Vasseur -- Unfinished business : the present and future contributions of biosphere reserves to sustainability science / Maureen G. Reed and Martin F. Price.
"UNESCO Biosphere Reserves are geographical regions of global socio-ecological significance. They are designated within UNESCO's Man and Biosphere Programme, and form an international, intergovernmental network that supports the aims of sustainability science. This book shows their global relevance and outlines lessons learned about biocultural diversity, sustainability, and society. This book will be of great interest to professionals engaged in conservation and sustainable development, NGOs, policy-makers and advanced students in environmental management, ecology, sustainability science, environmental anthropology and geography"--
