Handbook of regional growth and development theories
In recent years, economic crises, regional fragmentation trends, radical technological innovation and the failures of regional policies have expanded the knowledge horizon of experts in regional growth and development. This fully updated, revised and expanded Second Edition contains ten new chapters as well as exploring theories prevalent in the first edition in the face of recent changes in the field. With 30 chapters from leading experts from across the globe, this Handbook looks at new pathways in regional economics, presenting the most cutting-edge theories explaining regional growth and local development. It thoroughly examines recent advances in theories, the normative potentialities that they have and the cross-fertilization of ideas between regional and mainstream economists, providing crucial insights to the topic. This will be an essential source of reference and information for scholars and advanced students of regional science and regional economics. It will also be a useful tool for experts in international institutions researching regional growth
Contents: Preface to the second edition: Novelties and advances / Roberta Capello and Peter Nijkamp -- Part I: Growth theories and space -- 1. Theories of agglomeration and regional economic growth: A historical review / Philip McCann and Frank van Oort -- 2. Space, growth and development: A historical perspective and recent advances / Roberta Capello -- 3. Location/allocation of regional growth / Gunther Maier and Michaela Trippl -- 4. Regional growth and trade in the new economic geography and other recent theories / Kieran P. Donaghy -- 5. Leadership, institutions and regional economic development and growth / Roger Stough -- Part II: Development theories: Regional production factors -- 6. Agglomeration, productivity and regional growth: Production theory approaches / Jeffrey P. Cohen, Cletus C. Coughlin, and Catherine J. Morrison Paul -- 7. Territorial capital and regional development: Theoretical insights and appropriate policies / Roberto Camagni -- 8. Human capital and regional development / Alessandra Faggian, Félix Modrego and Philip McCann -- 9. Infrastructure and regional development / Johannes Bröcker, Dirk Dohse and Piet Rietveld -- 10. The nexus of entrepreneurship and regional development / Manfred M. Fischer and Peter Nijkamp -- 11. Foreign direct investments, global value chains and regional development / Laura Resmini -- Part III: Development theories: Innovation, knowledge and space -- 12. Theories of innovation in space: Path-breaking achievements in regional science / Roberta Capello -- 13. Innovation and space. Achievements and prospects / Camilla Lenzi -- 14. R&D spillovers and regional development/growth / Daria Denti -- 15. Regional development and knowledge / Borje Johansson and Charlie Karlsson -- 16. Territorial development and proximity relations / André Torre -- 17. Sustainable development and regional growth revisited / Amitrajeet A. Batabyal and Peter Nijkamp -- 18. Spatial clusters and regional development / Peter Gordon and Karima Kourtit -- Part IV: Regional growth and development measurement methods -- 19. Measuring agglomeration / Ryohei Nakamura and Catherine J. Morrison Paul -- 20. Investigating endogenous regional performance / Robert J Stimson, William Mitchell, Michael Flanagan, and Alistair Robson -- 21. Spatial-economic disparities and convergence / Stilianos Alexiadis -- 22. Heterogeneous reaction versus interaction in spatial econometric regional growth and convergence models / Julie Le Gallo and Ertur Cem -- 23. CGE modelling in space:a survey / Kieran P. Donaghy -- 24. Modern regional input-output and impact analyses / Jan Oosterhaven, Karen R. Polenske and Geoffrey J. D. Hewings -- Part V: Regional growth and development policies -- 25. Institutions and regional development / T.R. Lakshmanan and Ken J. Button -- 26. Regional policy: Rationale, foundations and measurement of effects / Jouke van Dijk, Henk Folmer and Jan Oosterhaven -- 27. Regional policy models: A review / Ana M. B. Barufi and Eduardo A. Haddad -- 28. Quantitative evaluation techniques for regional policies / Augusto Cerqua and Guido Pellegrini -- 29. The regional adjustment model: An instrument of evidence-based policy / John I. Carruthers and Gordon F. Mulligan -- 30. Economic decline and public intervention: Do special economic zones matter? / Peter Friedrich and Chang Woon Nam -- Index.
