Centrosome & centriole
Correlative light and electron microscopy analysis of the centrosome : a step by step protocol / Dong Kong and Jadranka Loncarek -- Generation of a conditional analog-sensitive kinase in human cells using CRISPR/Cas9-mediated genome engineering / Tyler Moyer and Andrew J. Holland -- Studying centrosome function using three-dimensional cell cultures / Teresa Arnandis and Susana A. Godinho -- Analysis of centrosomes in human cancer / Stefan Duensing -- In vivo examination of the cortical cytoskeleton in multiciliated cells using electron tomography / Daniel K. Clare, Maud Dumoux and Delphine Delacour -- Tackling Centrosome Biology Through Gene Targeting in Chicken B Cells / Pavithra L. Chavali and Fanni Gergely -- Centriole Biogenesis and Function in Multi-Ciliated Cells / Siwei Zhang and Brian J. Mitchell -- Subdiffraction resolution microscopy methods for analyzing centrosomes organization / Vito Mennella, Rachel Hanna and Moshe Kim -- Probing mammalian centrosome structure using bioID proximity-dependent biotinylation / Elif Nur Firat-Karalar and Tim Stearns -- Purification of centrosomes from mammalian cell lines / Delphine Gogendeau, Paul Guichard and Anne-Marie Tassin -- Isolation, cryotomography and three-dimensional reconstruction of centrioles / Paul Guichard, Virginie Hamel, Aitana Neves and Pierre Gönczy -- New insights into centrosome imaging in drosophila and mouse neuroepithelial tissues / Maria A. Rujano, Renata Basto and Véronique Marthiens -- Microinjection techniques for studying centrosome function in Drosophila melanogaster syncytial embryos / Paul T. Conduit, Daniel Hayward and James G. Wakefield -- A yeast two-hybrid approach for probing protein-protein interactions at the centrosome / Brian J. Galletta and Nasser M. Rusan -- Genome-wide RNAi screens in S2 cells to identify centrosome components / Jeroen Dobbelaere -- Time-lapse recording of centrosomes and other organelles in drosophila neuroblasts / Judit Pampalona, Jens Januschke, Paula Sampaio, and Cayetano Gonzalez -- Centrosomes and spindles in ascidian embryos and eggs / Alex McDougall, Janet Chenevert, Gerard Pruliere, Vlad Costache, Celine Hebras, Gregory Salez and Remi Dumollard -- Ultrastructural analysis of Caerhabditis elegans cilia / Daniel Serwas and Alexander Dammermann -- Method : in vitro analysis of pericentriolar material assembly / Jeffrey B. Woodruff and Anthony A. Hyman -- Monitoring SPB biogenesis in fission yeast with high resolution and quantitative fluorescent microscopy / Imène B. Bouhlel, Kathleen Scheffler, Phong T. Tran and Anne Paoletti
"This new volume of Methods in Cell Biology looks at methods for analyzing centrosomes and centrioles. Chapters cover such topics as methods to analyze centrosomes, centriole biogenesis and function in multi-ciliated cells, laser manipulation of centrosomes or CLEM, analysis of centrosomes in human cancers and tissues, proximity interaction techniques to study centrosomes, and genome engineering for creating conditional alleles in human cells."--
