The Bloomsbury handbook of 21st-century feminist theory
"The Bloomsbury Handbook of 21st-Century Feminist Theory is the most comprehensive available survey of the state of the art of contemporary feminist thought. With chapters written by world-leading scholars from a range of disciplines, the book explores the latest thinking on key topics in current feminist discourse, including: -- Feminist subjectivity - from identity, difference, and intersectionality to affect, sex and the body -- Feminist texts - writing, reading, genre and critique -- Feminism and the world - from power, trauma and value to technology, migration and community Including insights from literary and cultural studies, philosophy, political science and sociology, The Bloomsbury Handbook of 21st-Century Feminist Theory is an essential overview of current feminist thinking and future directions for scholarship, debate and activism."--
List of Figures Acknowledgements -- Notes on Contributors -- Introduction, Robin Truth Goodman (Florida State University, USA) -- Part I: The Subject -- 1. Subject, Susan Hekman, Professor of Political Science (University of Texas at Arlington, USA) -- 2. Identity, Michelle M. Wright, Professor of African American and Comparative Literary Studies (Northwestern University, USA) -- 3. Difference, Hortense J. Spillers, Gertrude Conaway Vanderbilt Professor of English (Vanderbilt University, USA) -- 4. Birth, Fanny Söderbäck, Assistant Professor of Philosophy (DePaul University, USA) -- 5. Body, Maria Margaroni, Associate Professor of English Studies (University of Cyprus, Cyprus) -- 6. Affect, Anca Parvulescu, Professor of English and Interdisciplinary Humanities (Washington University, USA) -- 7. Sex, Rita Mookerjee, teaches English (Florida State University, USA) -- 8. Intersex/Transgender, Kathleen Long, Professor of French (Cornell University, USA) -- 9. Experience, Alison Phipps, Professor of Gender Studies (University of Sussex, UK) -- 10. Intersectionality, Aida Hurtado, Professor and Luis Leal Endowed Chair (University of California, Santa Barbara, USA) -- Part II: The Text -- 11. Language, Kyoo Lee, Professor of Philosophy (John Jay College & the Graduate Center, CUNY, USA) -- 12. Writing, Aimee Armande Wilson, Assistant Professor of Humanities (University of Kansas, USA) -- 13. Reading, Nicole Simmek, Associate Professor of French (Whitman College, USA) -- 14. Realism, Margaret R. Higonnet, Professor of English (University of Connecticut, USA) -- 15. Poetics, Caitlin Newcomer (California State University Northridge, USA) -- 16. Translation, Luise von Flotow, Professor and Director of the School of Translation and Interpretation (University of Ottawa, Canada) -- 17. Genre, Mihoko Suzuki, Professor of English and Director of the Center for the Humanities (University of Miami, USA) -- 18. Archive, Laura Hughes, Postdoctoral Fellow (New York University, USA).
19. Critique, Ewa Plonowska Ziarek, Professor of Comparative Literature (University of Buffalo, USA) -- Part III: The World -- 20. World, Masood Raja, Associate Professor of English (University of North Texas, USA) -- 21. Environment, Shannon Davis Mancus 22. Anthropocene, Alison Sperling, Department of Women's and Gender Studies (Santa Clara University, USA) 23. The Political, Marios Constantinou, Indepedent Scholar -- 24. Political Trauma, Joy James, Francis Christopher Oakley Third Century Professor of Humanities, Africana Studies, and Political Science (Williams College, USA) -- 25. Labor, Susan Ferguson, Associate Professor of Digital Media and Journalism (Wilfrid Laurier University, Canada) -- 26. Commodity, Robin Truth Goodman, Professor of English (Florida State University, USA) -- 27. Matter, Emanuela Bianchi, Associate Professor of Comparative Literature (New York University, USA) -- 28. Technology, Anne Cong-Huyen, Digital Pedagogy Librarian (University of Michigan, USA) 29. Home, Sarah Afzal, teaches English (Florida State University, USA) -- 30. Migration, Effie Yiannopoulou, Assistant Professor of English (Aristotle University, Greece) -- 31. Diaspora, Avtar Brah, Professor Emeritus of Sociology (Birkbeck University of London, UK) -- 32. Community, Mina Karavanta, Associate Professor of Literature and Culture (University of Athens, Greece) -- 33. Anti-Imperialism, Rashmi Varma, Associate Professor of English and Comparative Literary Studies (University of Warwick, UK) -- 34. Future, Bridget Crone, Lecturer in Visual Cultures (Goldsmiths, University of London, UK) and Henriette Gunkel, Lecturer in Visual Cultures (Goldsmiths University of London, UK) -- Index.
