Co-production and co-creation : engaging citizens in public services
Part 1. Co-Production and Co-Creation: Definitions and Theoretical Perspectives : 1. Co-Creation and Co-Production in Public Services: Urgent Issues in Practice and Research / Taco Brandsen, Trui Steen and Bram Verschuere -- 2. Definitions of Co-Production and Co-Creation / Taco Brandsen and Marlies Honingh -- 3. Co-Production and the Co-Creation of Value in Public Services: A Perspective from Service Management / Stephen P. Osborne, Kirsty Strokosch and Zoe Radnor -- 4. Co-Production at the Crossroads of Public Administration Regimes / Victor Pestoff -- 4.1 Case Study--Co-Production of Care Services: Co-opting Citizens in the Reform Agenda / José Nederhand and Ingmar Van Meerkerk -- 5. Public Management and Co-Production / John Alford and Louise Freijser -- 6. What Do Voluntary Sector Studies Offer Research on Co-Production? / Lehn M. Benjamin and Jeffrey L. Brudney -- Part 2. Influences on the Process of Co-Production and Co-Creation : 7. Unraveling the Co-Producers: Who are They and What Motivations do They Have? Carola Van Eijk and Mila Gascó -- 7.1 Case Study--The Spanish Project Pla BUITS / Mila Gascó and Carola Van Eijk -- 8. The Roles of the Professional in Co-Production and Co-Creation Processes / Trui Steen and Sanna Tuurnas -- 8.1 Case Study--Mediation Service: Crossing the Line Between the Roles of Traditional Welfare State Professionals and Citizens as Voluntary Mediators / Sanna Tuurnas -- 8.2 Case Study--The Role of Staff with Lived Experience in the Co-Production of Substance Use Disorder Treatment Services / Sunggeun (Ethan) Park -- 9. Who Is in the Lead? New Perspectives on Leading Service Co-Production / Hans Schlappa and Yassaman Imani -- 9.1 Case Study--Leading Co-Production: The Case of Hertfordshire Fire and Rescue Service's Community Volunteer Scheme / Yassaman Imani and Hans Schlappa -- 9.2 Case Study--Enhancing Co-Creation Through Linking Leadership: The Danish 'Zebra City' Project / Anne Tortzen -- 10. The Increasing Role of Digital Technologies in Co-Production and Co-Creation / Veiko Lember -- 10.1 Case Study--How Public Services in Sweden Help Newcomers to Integrate in the Labour Market and Society Through the Digital Platform Mobilearn / Somya Joshi, Vasilis Koulolias, Francisco Garcia Moran and Elke Loeffler -- 10.2 Case Study--ICT and Empowerment of Frail Elderly in Flemish Municipalities / Sylke Jaspers -- 10.3 Case Study--Remote Health Monitoring with Wearable Sensors and Smartphones / András Gábor and Barbara Gausz -- 11. Legal Dilemmas of Co-Production and Co-Creation / Dawid Sześciło -- 11.1 Case Study--The European Disability Card / Charlotte Van Dijck -- Part 3. Co-Production and Co-Creation in Different Domains : 12. Co-Production in Healthcare / Caitlin McMullin and Catherine Needham -- 12.1 Case Study--Co-Producing Recommendations to Reduce Diagnostic Error / Suyeon Jo and Tina Nabatchi -- 12.2 Case Study--Co-Production of Secondary Health Services in Nigeria and Ghana / Mary Mangai, Michiel De Vries, and Johan De Kruijf -- 13. Parents as Co-Producers in Primary Education / Marlies Honingh, Elena Bondarouk and Taco Brandsen -- 13. Case Study--Partners for Possibility: Co-Production of Education / Dirk Brand and Marleen Rolland -- 13.2 Case Study--Co-Creating School Meals Services / Giuseppe Aquino and Maddalena Sorrentino -- 14. Co-Production and the Environment / Marco Ranzato and Luisa Moretto -- 14.1 Case Study--Balade Verte et Bleue and Ilôt d'eau: Co-Creation and Co-Production for the Environment / Marco Ranzato -- 14.2 Case Study--Co-Producing Flood Risk Governance in England, the Netherlands and Flanders / Hannelore Mees -- 15. Co-Production in Community Development / Daphne Vanleene and Bram Verschuere -- 15.1 Case Study--Co-Production and Community Development in France / Caitlin McMullin -- 16. Providing Public Safety and Public Order Through Co-Production / Elke Loeffler -- 16.1 Case Study--The Blue and You Police-Community Forum: Co-Production of a Community Conversation / Brian N. Williams, Dan Silk, Hadley Nobles and Jainiecya Harper -- 16.2 Case Study--Dutch and Belgian Citizens' Motivations to Engage in Neighbourhood Watch Schemes / Carola Van Eijk, Trui Steen and Bram Verschuere -- Part 4. The Effects of Co-Production and Co-Creation : 17. Co-Production, Co-Creation, and Citizen Empowerment . Suyeon Jo and Tina Nabatchi -- 17.1 Case Study--Co-Creation and Empowerment: The Case of DR Congo in Agricultural and Rural Sector / Peter Ngala Ntumba -- 18. Democratic Co-Production: Concepts and Determinants / Bram Verschuere, Daphne Vanleene, Trui Steen and Taco Brandsen -- 18.1 Case Study--Co-Production of New Immigrant Services in Hong Kong: Facilitating the Integration of New Immigrants into Community / Xuan Tu -- 18.2 Case Study--The Rabot Neighbourhood: Co-Production in Community Development / Daphne Vanleene and Bram Verschuere -- 19. The Effects of Co-Production on Trust / Joost Fledderus -- 19.1 Case Study--Building Trust in Work Corporations / Joost Fledderus -- 20. Assessing the Effect of Co-Production on Outcomes, Service Quality and Efficiency / Elke Loeffler and Tony Bovaird -- 20.1 Case Study--Amadiba Adventures: Co-Creating Community-Based Tourism / Ntuthuko Mchunu and Francois Theron -- 21. The Dark Side of Co-Creation and Co-Production: Sevel Evils / Trui Steen, Taco Brandsen and Bram Verschuere -- 21.1 Case Study--Experts-by-Experience in Finnish Social Welfare / Taina Meriluoto -- Part 5. Concluding Chapter : 22. How to Encourage Co-Creation and Co-Production: Some Recommendations / Taco Brandsen, Trui Steen and Bram Verschuere.
Co-production and co-creation occur when citizens participate actively in delivering and designing the services they receive. It has come increasingly onto the agenda of policymakers, as interest in citizen participation has more generally soared. Expectations are high and it is regarded as a possible solution to the public sector’s decreased legitimacy and dwindling resources, by accessing more of society’s capacities. In addition, it is seen as part of a more general drive to reinvigorate voluntary participation and strengthen social cohesion in an increasingly fragmented and individualized society.　"Co-Production and Co-Creation: Engaging Citizens in Public Services" offers a systematic and comprehensive theoretical and empirical examination of the concepts of co-production and co-creation and their application in practice. It shows the latest state of knowledge on the topic and will be of interest both to students at an advanced level, academics and reflective practitioners. It addresses the topics with regard to co-production and co-creation and will be of interest to researchers, academics, policymakers, and students in the fields of public administration, business administration, economics, political science, public management, political science service management, sociology and voluntary sector studies.
