The Palgrave handbook of development economics : critical reflections on globalisation and development
In today's ever globalised world, we are witness to a shifting world order with significant changes not only in political-economic relationships but also in the changing demographics of developing nations. This handbook explores how many developing countries have remained extremely vulnerable to external shocks of all kinds, and the need for the global community to face up to the shared challenges of sustainable development, i.e. to search for a social, economic, financial and environmentally sustainable path for the global economy. There are deep and strategically crucial, conceptual and policy links between development paths and the multi-dimensional questions of sustainability. Yet, these links, currently, are not well examined analytically or documented in the current literature of development economics. Each chapter in this handbook explores these conceptual and policy links by setting appropriate questions and critically reviewing relevant literature. Taking on these challenges, while remaining relevant to real world issues, requires critical appraisal of a variety of methodological approaches and analytical tools. Such thoughts and approaches will lead to a formulation of fresh policy perspectives for addressing challenges and advancing sustainable development in the ever inter-connected, dynamically evolving and globalised environments of the 21st century.
Part I: Overview -- 1. Introduction to the Handbook- Machiko Nissanke and Jose Antonio Ocampo -- 2. Critical Reflections on Globalisation and Development and Challenges Ahead- Machiko Nissanke and Jose Antonio Ocampo -- Part II: Methodological and Conceptual Issues in Development Economics -- 3. The History and Evolution of the Development Doctrine, 1950–2017- Erik Thorbecke -- 4. Structuralists, Structure, and Economic Development- Amitava Krishna Dutt -- 5. Development Economics and Public Economics: Emerging Analytical Interface and Practical Policy Implications- Valpy Fitzgerald -- 6. The Process of Development: The Contribution of Regulation Theory- Robert Boyer -- 7. Development as an Evolutionary Economic Process- Richard Nelson -- 8. Feminist Economist’s Reflections on Economic Development: Theories and Policy Debates- Maria S. Floro -- Part III: Socio-Economic Development Processes: Structural Change, Inequality, Poverty, Institutions and Capabilities -- 9. The Recent Growth Boom in Developing Economies: A Structural-Change Perspective- Xinshen Diao, Margaret McMillan and Dani Rodrik -- 10. Income Inequality in Developing Countries: Past and Present- Rolph Van der Hoeven -- 11. The Distribution of Productive Assets and the Economics of Rural Development and Poverty Reduction- Michael R. Carter and Aleksandr Michuda -- 12. Institutions and the Process of Industrialisation: Towards a Theory of Social Capability Development- Ha-Joon Chang and Antonio Andoreoni -- 13. Capability Approach and Human Development- Sakiko Fukuda Parr and Ismael Cid Martinez -- Part IV: Finance, Labour, Technology and Ecology in Economic Development -- 14. Development Finance: Theory and Practice- Fernando Cardim de Carvalho, Jan Kregel, Lavinia Barros de Castro and Rogerio Studart -- 15. Critical Reappraisal of the Aid-Debt-Growth Debate: Retrospect and Prospects for Low Income Countries- Machiko Nissanke -- 16. Labour Institutions and Development under Globalisation- Servaas Storm and Jeronim Capaldo -- 17. Technology and Innovation for Sustainable Development- Raphael Kaplinsky -- 18. Ecological Sustainability, Intergenerational Resource Transfer and Economic Development- Edward B. Barbier -- Part V: Globalisation and Development: International Policy Agenda -- 19. Globalisation in Historical Perspective- Deepak Nayyar -- 20. Financial Globalisation and its Implications for Development- Ricardo Ffrench Davis and Stephanny Griffith-Jones -- 21. Trade and Investment in the Era of Hyperglobalisation- Elissa Braunstein, Piergiuseppe Fortunato and Richard Kozul-Wright -- 22. International Migration and Development- Hania Zlotnik -- 23. International Monetary Systems and Economic Development- Jose Antonio Ocampo -- 24. Global Public Goods and Governance for Addressing Sustainability- Inge Kaul
