Online Game Pioneers at Work
From the foreword written by Richard Bartle, the coauthor of MUD: "They [the 16 people interviewed in the book] tell things just the way they are, without any spin, and with insights freely flowing. That’s either a feature of successful game developers or a testament to Morgan’s interviewing skills. I suspect it’s a combination of both." In this groundbreaking collection of 15 interviews, successful founders of entertainment software companies reflect on their challenges and how they survived. You will learn of the strategies, the sacrifices, the long hours, the commitment, and the dedication to quality that led to their successes but also of the toll that this incredibly competitive market has on even its most brilliant minds. For the hundreds of thousands of game developers out there, this is a must read survival guide. For those who simply enjoy games and know of some of these founders, this will be a most interesting read. Sales of video games, hardware, and accessories reach upwards of $20 billion every year in the United States alone, and more than two-thirds of American households include video games in their daily lives. In a world that seems to be overflowing with fortune and success, the vicious truth of this booming industry is easily forgotten: failure is tradition. For nearly four decades, video games have captured the imaginations and drawn the ire of people around the world. Actors play them. Rappers promote them. Politicians want to control them. Even baseball legends make them. Video games are a cultural crossroads where business, entertainment, and technology converge. There are a few game development companies that have withstood the test of time; most startups exit as quickly as they enter the scene. Many firms are outpaced by the explosive worldwide growth and economic realities of the sector. Here are enlightening the stories of entrepreneurs who found success and many who subsequently could not repeat it. They walk you through their incredible journeys of success and failure while expressing their views on development, design, hiring, finance, business models, selling their organization, the business life cycle, their frustrations and mistakes, while showing their intensity and their passion for the business along the way. Online Game Pioneers at Work: Explores the formation of entertainment software companies from the perspectives of successful founders who defied the odds Provides insight into why experienced professionals sa ...
