Third International Handbook of Mathematics Education
Past, present and future dimensions of mathematics education: Introduction to the Third International Handbook of Mathematics Education: M. A. (Ken) Clements -- VOLUME ONE -- SECTION A: SOCIAL, POLITICAL AND CULTURAL DIMENSIONS IN MATHEMATICS EDUCATION -- Introduction to Section A: Social, Political and Cultural Dimensions in Mathematics Education: Christine Keitel -- 1. From the few to the many: Historical perspectives on who should learn mathematics: M. A. (Ken) Clements, C. Keitel, Alan J. Bishop, Jeremy Kilpatrick and Frederick Leung -- 2 Theories for studying social, political and cultural dimensions of mathematics education: Eva Jablonka, David Wagner and Margaret Walshaw -- 3. Understanding and overcoming “disadvantage” in learning mathematics : Lulu Healey and Arthur B. Powell -- 4. Beyond deficit models of learning mathematics: Sociocultural directions for change and research: Cristina Frade, Nadja Acioly-Régnier and Li Jun -- 5. Studying learners in intercultural contexts: Yoshinori Shimizu and Gaye Williams -- 6. Learners in transition between contexts: Tamsin Meaney and Troels Lange.-7. Critical perspectives on adults’ mathematics education: Jeff Evans, Tine Wedege and Keiko Yasukawa -- 8. The politics of equity and access in teaching and learning mathematics: Neil A. Pateman and Chap Sam Lim -- SECTION B: MATHEMATICS EDUCATION AS A FIELD OF STUDY -- Introduction to Section B: Mathematics Education as a Field of Study: Alan J. Bishop -- 9. From mathematics and education to mathematics education: Fulvia Furinghetti, José Manuel Matos and Marta Menghini -- 10. Theories for education: mathematics: Some developments and ways forward: Bharath Sriraman and Elena Nardi -- 11. Research methods in mathematics teacher education: Uwe Gellert, Rosa Becerra Hernández and Olive Chapman -- 12. Linking research to practice: Teachers as key stakeholders in mathematics education research: Carolyn Kieran, Konrad Krainer and J. Michael Shaughnessy -- 13. Teachers learning from teachers: Allan Leslie White, Barbara Jaworski, Cecilia Agudelo-Valderrama and Zahra Gooya -- 14. Developing mathematics educators: Jarmila Novotná, Claire Margolinas and Bernard Sarrazy -- 15. Institutional contexts for research in mathematics education: Tony Brown and David Clarke -- 16. Policy implications of developing mathematics education research: Celia Hoyles and Joan Ferrini-Mundy -- VOLUME TWO -- SECTION C: TECHNOLOGY IN THE MATHEMATICS CURRICULUM -- Introduction to Section C: Technology in the mathematics curriculum: Frederick Leung -- 17. From the slate to the Web: Technology in the mathematics curriculum: David Lindsay Roberts, Allen Yuk Lun Leung and Abigail Lins -- 18. Modelling with mathematics and technologies: Julian Williams and Merrilyn Goos -- 19. Technology and the role of proof: The case of dynamic geometry: Nathalie Sinclair and Ornella Robutti -- 20. How might Computer Algebra Systems change the role of algebra in the school curriculum?: M. Kathleen Heid, Mike Thomas and Rose Mary Zbiek -- 21. Technologies for enhancing statistical reasoning at the school level: Rolf Biehler, Dani Ben-Zvi, Arthur Bakker and Katie Makar -- 22. Learning with the Use of the Internet: Marcelo C. Borba, Philip Clarkson and George Gadanidis -- 23. Technology and assessment in mathematics: Kaye Stacey and Dylan Wiliam -- 24. Technology-driven developments and policy implications for mathematics education: Luc Trouche, Paul Drijvers, Ghislaine Gueudet and Ana Isabel Sacristán -- SECTION D: INTERNATIONAL PERSPECTIVES ON MATHEMATICS EDUCATION -- Introduction to Section D: International Perspectives on Mathematics Education: Jeremy Kilpatrick.
This entirely new Third International Handbook of Mathematics Education comprises 31 chapters which have been written by a total of 84 different authors representing 26 nations, each a recognized expert in the field. Comprised of four sections: Social, Political and Cultural Dimensions in Mathematics Education; Mathematics Education as a Field of Study; Technology in the Mathematics Curriculum; and International Perspectives on Mathematics Education, this Third Handbook offers essential reading for all persons interested in the future of mathematics education. The authors present challenging international perspectives on the history of mathematics education, current issues, and future directions. What makes this Handbook unique is its structure. Each section covers past, present and future aspects of mathematics education. The first chapter in each section identifies and analyzes historical antecedents The “middle” chapters draw attention to present-day key issues and themes The final chapter in each section reflect on policy matters and future directions We are in an unprecedented era of globalization in education, and this Handbook provides an impressive example of the kind of collaboration needed if we are to make progress on key issues facing mathematics education.
