Mastering Media with the Raspberry Pi : Media Centers, Music, High End Audio, Video, and Ultimate Movie Nights
Create and maintain Raspberry Pi-based entertainment systems in a comprehensive and fun manner. Instead of front-loading a bunch of theory and minutia, this book takes a more practical approach of showing what's needed when it's needed. You'll first explore the possibilities and options available. Then you'll learn the hardware and software requirements based on various builds and projects. Finally, you'll be guided through building media centers, music players, recording studios, etc. Mastering Media with the Raspberry Pi presents all of this and more in an easy-to-understand-and-accomplish way, in plain English. What you'll learn:Choose the right Pi model for your project Enhance your media center with peripherals and add onsGet the most from your music and other mediaUnderstand the various major media formats out there and how to work with eachWho this book is for:Students and hobbyists interested in building media centers out of their Raspberry Pis.  Ralph Roberts is a longtime writer with over 100 books published and more than 20 million words sold professionally (mostly about computers) and the publisher of about 1,000 titles through his own publishing company. He's recently written extensively about the Raspberry Pi-directly coauthoring a book with Eben Upton, Founder of the Raspberry Pi Foundation-including thousands of words about its sound and video features. Additionally, he has decades of experience in sound and video, having produced hundreds of hours of TV shows and documentaries. He also owned a small chain of stereo stores and held certification from the Society of Audio Consultants.
Create and maintain Raspberry Pi-based entertainment systems in a comprehensive and fun manner. Instead of front-loading a bunch of theory and minutia, this book takes a more practical approach of showing what’s needed when it’s needed.  You'll first explore the possibilities and options available. Then you'll learn the hardware and software requirements based on different builds and projects. Finally, you'll be guided through building media centers, music players, recording studios, etc. Mastering Media with the Raspberry Pi presents all of this and more in an easy-to-understand-and-accomplish way, in plain English. This book shows students and hobbyists alike how to get the most from their music and other media and how to leverage the various major media formats out there
