The Routledge handbook of language in conflict
Introduction: the origins of the Routledge Handbook of Language in Conflict / Lesley Jeffries and Jim O'Driscoll -- Section 1: Text in conflict: 1. Introduction: textual choice and communication in conflict / Lesley Jeffries -- 2. Discursive (re)construction of the prelude to the 2003 Iraq War in op/ed pieces: dialectics of argument and rhetoric / Ahmed Sahlane -- 3. Stark choices and brutal simplicity: the blunt instrument of constructed opposition in news editorials / Matt Davies -- 4. Projecting your 'opponent''s views: linguistic negation and the potential for conflict / Lisa Nahajec -- 5. Ideological positioning in conflict: the United States and Egypt's domestic political trajectory / Gibreel Sadeq Alaghbary -- 6. Homosexuality in Latvian and Polish parliamentary debates 1994-2013: a historical approach to conflict in political discourse / Joanna Chojnicka -- 7. Conflict and categorisation: a corpus and discourse study of naming participants in forced migration / Charlotte Taylor -- 8. Hate speech: conceptualisations, interpretations and reactions / Sharon Millar -- Section 2: Interaction in conflict: 9. Introduction / Jim O'Driscoll -- 10. Conflict, disagreement and (im)politeness / Maria Sifianou -- 11. Offence and conflict talk / Michael Haugh and Valeria Sinkeviciute -- 12. Conflict interaction: insights from Conversation Analysis Phillip Glenn -- 13. Conflict in political discourse: conflict as congenital to political discourse / Petter Bull and Anne-Marie Simon-Vandenbergen -- 14. Discourse features of disputing in small claims hearings / Karen Tracy and Danielle M. Hodge -- 15. Leadership in conflict: disagreement and consensus negotiation in a start-up team / Christian J. Schmitt and Rosina Marquez-Reiter -- 16. Interaction and conflict in digital communication / Sage L. Graham -- Section 3: Languages in conflict: 17. Introduction: conflict with the stuff of language / Jim O'Driscoll -- 18. Ethnicity, conflict and language choice: the case of northern Ghana / Paul Kerswill and Edward Salifu Mahama -- 19. Language and conflict in the Mapuche context / Robbie Felix Penman -- 20. Linguistic Landscape as an arena of conflict: language removal, exclusion and ethnic identity construction in Lithuania / Irina Moore -- 21. 'You are shamed for speaking it or for not speaking it good enough': the paradoxical status of Spanish in the US Latino community / Pilar G. Blitvich -- 22. Hate crimes: language, vulnerability and conflict / Kamran Khan -- 23. Language ideologies in conflict at the workplace / Julia de Bres and Anne Franziskus --  Section 4: Linguistics in conflict: 24. Introduction: the potential for Linguistics to change conflict in the 'real' world / Lesley Jeffries -- 25. The value of linguistics in assessing potential threats in an airport setting / Dawn Archer, Cliff Lansley and Aaron Garner -- 26. Threatening contexts: an examination of threatening language from linguistic, legal and law enforcement perspectives / Tammy Gales -- 27. Talk in mediation: metaphors in acrimonious talk / Madeline M. Maxwell and Scott V. Anderson -- 28. Conflicts of policy and self-representation in the UK asylum process / Rachel Hanna -- 29. On agency, witnessing and surviving: interpreters in situations of violent conflict / Rebecca Tipton -- 30. The Irish language in Belfast: the role of a language in post-conflict resolution / Marcus Mac Coinnigh, Linda Ervine and Pol Deeds -- Afterword / Oliver Ramsbotham and Tom Woodhouse -- Index.
