Pro Linux High Availability Clustering
This book explains essential high-availability clustering components on all Linux platforms, giving the reader insight into building solutions for any specific case needed. Topics covered include: configuring Apache for high availability, creating an Open Source SAN based on DRBD, iSCSI and HA clustering; setting up a load-balanced Web server cluster with a back-end, highly-available database; setting up a KVM virtualization platform with high-availability protection for a virtual machine; designing Linux high availability clusters; setting up an environment to protect mission critical applications; connecting servers in a redundant way to the SAN; creating an affordable SAN based on open source software; seting up clusters for protection of Oracle and SAP workloads; writing cluster resource script; creating an open source SAN and a free hypervisor using KVM as the virtualization platform; and setting up a versatile, fault-tolerant, high-performance Web shop. --
Pro Linux High Availability Clustering teaches you how to implement this fundamental Linux add-on into your business. Linux High Availability Clustering is needed to ensure the availability of mission critical resources. The technique is applied more and more in corporate datacenters around the world. While lots of documentation about the subject is available on the internet, it isn't always easy to build a real solution based on that scattered information, which is often oriented towards specific tasks only. Pro Linux High Availability Clustering explains essential high-availability clustering components on all Linux platforms, giving you the insight to build solutions for any specific case needed. In this book four common cases will be explained: Configuring Apache for high availability Creating an Open Source SAN based on DRBD, iSCSI and HA clustering Setting up a load-balanced web server cluster with a back-end, highly-available database Setting up a KVM virtualization platform with high-availability protection for a virtual machine. With the knowledge you'll gain from these real-world applications, you'll be able to efficiently apply Linux HA to your work situation with confidence. Author Sander Van Vugt teaches Linux high-availability clustering on training courses, uses it in his everyday work, and now brings this knowledge to you in one place, with clear examples and cases. Make the best start with HA clustering with Pro Linux High Availability Clustering at your side
