Teaching cultural economics
Contents: 1 Introduction / Trine Bille, Anna Mignosa and Ruth Towse -- 2. Teaching cultural economics / Ruth Towse -- 3. Cultural economics - in research and teaching / Trine Bille -- 4. Why a(nother) book on cultural economics? / Anna Mignosa -- 5. My approach to teaching cultural economics: Why, how, what? / Françoise Benhamou -- 6. Teaching cultural economics: the perspective of a decade / Bruce A. Seaman -- Part I: Economics of public support for arts and cultural organizations -- 7. Economic arguments for public support of arts and culture / Trine Bille -- 8. Cultural value and economic value in arts and culture / Patrycja Kaszynska -- 9. Performance assessment in cultural institutions / Luis César Herrero-Prieto and María José del Barrio-Tellado -- 10. Economic impact studies / Trine Bille -- Part II: Financing cultural production -- 11. Tax incentives for the cultural sector / Sigrid Hemels -- 12. Tax incentives for international giving to the cultural sector / Renate Buijze -- 13. Philanthropy / Luigi Di Gaetano and Isidoro Mazza -- 14 the economics of crowdfunding / Françoise Benhamou -- Part III: Artists' labour markets -- 15. Artists' earnings and labour markets / Trine Bille -- 16. Contracts for creators and performers in the creative industries / Ruth Towse -- 17. Busking as a source of income / Samuel Cameron -- 18. Creators' and performers' earnings from copyright / Ruth Towse -- 19. Superstars / Luc Champarnaud -- Part IV: Consumer behaviour in the cultural sector -- 20. Demand for cultural goods: key concepts and a hypothetical case study / Bruce A. Seaman -- 21. Consumer theory, market segmentation and audience research on cultural goods / Victoria Ateca-Amestoy -- 22. Consumer behaviour in the performing arts / Andrea Baldin -- 23. Digital consumption of cultural goods and services / Jordi McKenzie -- 24. Strategies for and experiences of audience development / Egil Bjørnsen -- 25. Big data: the new avenue for measuring cultural consumption? / Lydia Deloumeaux -- Part V: Digitization and copyright -- 26. Artificial intelligence and cultural creation / Joëlle Farchy and Juliette Denis -- 27. Digitization in museums / Trilce Navarrete -- 28. Paying for digital music / Christian Handke -- 29. The economics of e-books / Françoise Benhamou -- 30. BBC3 goes digital / Ruth Towse -- Part VI: Topics in economics of cultural and creative industries -- 31. Measuring the creative economy / Hasan Bakhshi -- 32. Art at the crossroads between creativity, innovation, digital technology and business, a case study / Elisabetta Lazzaro -- 33. Art galleries as market makers / Paolo Di Caro and Isidoro Mazza -- 34. Film economics / Tylor Orme and Darlene C. Chisholm -- 35. Cinema economics / Tylor Orme and Darlene C. Chisholm -- 36. Intangible cultural heritage / Kazuko Goto and Anna Mignosa -- 37. The economics of craft / Kazuko Goto and Anna Mignosa -- 38. Conservation of historical buildings: the rehabilitation of the Benedettini Monastery in Catania / Giacomo Pignataro and Ilde Rizzo -- Index.
"Cultural economics deals with many aspects of the creative economy including the art market, heritage, live performing arts and cultural industries. Teaching Cultural Economics introduces the range and scope of these subjects through short chapters by experienced teachers who are expert in the topic of their chapters. The guide starts out with chapters on the experience of teaching cultural economics by leading exponents in the field. Chapters then follow grouped by general topic: financing cultural production, artists' labour markets, consumer behaviour in the cultural sector, digitisation and copyright and case studies of creative industries. The breadth of material provided within these pages is invaluable to teachers who wish to offer courses in cultural economics and are seeking guidance for developing a new course, as well as for teachers who are already teaching cultural economics and are seeking inspiration for new case studies. The material can also be used by teachers of other courses who wish to teach cultural economics as part of their curriculum"--
