Experimental ecophysiology and biochemistry of trees and shrubs
"The existence and competition of trees and shrubs to sustain and put forth growth under varied environmental conditions is dependent on the interactions that occur between the plant metabolic processes and the prevailing environmental conditions. In order to understand the productivity of trees and shrubs, it is a prerequisite to know the experimental techniques of these vital processes. This volume, Experimental Eco-Physiology and Biochemistry of Trees and Shrubs, provides a comprehensive presentation of this topic. The first part of this book deals with various aspects of experimental ecophysiology and recent research results of studies on plant pigment, epicuticular wax, leaf nutrients, carbon fixation, all supported by literature. The second part of the volume describes various laboratory techniques such as diffusion, imbibition, calorimetry, atomic absorption, mineral nutrition, nutrition analysis of forage, litterfall chemistry, nutrient cycle, etc. The third and fourth parts deal with the advances in the techniques in the development of ecophysiology. The book will serve as an important handbook and resource for students, faculty and teachers, technicians, and researchers and scientists involved in forest science dealing with ecophysiology and biochemistry of woody and crop plants"--
1. Leaf Pigments -- 2. Leaf Epicuticular Wax -- 3. Leaf Nutrients -- 4. Carbon Fixation (Carbon Sequestration) -- 5. Wood Carbon and Nitrogen -- 6. Leaf/Wood Chemical Composition -- 7. Revision of Terminology and Laboratory Techniques -- 8. Diffusion and Osmosis -- 9. Imbibition of Seeds -- 10. Estimation of Water Potential in Potato from Change in Weight and Volume -- 11. Influence of pH on Coloration of Anthocyanin and Betalaine -- 12. Colorimetry as a Tool in Plant Physiology -- 13, Determination of Pigment Contents in Leaf Tissue -- 14. Water Relations -- 15. Spectroscopy of Atomic Absorption -- 16. Mineral Nutrition and Symptoms of Deficiency of Nutrients -- 17. Leaf Epicuticular Wax -- 18. Determination of Nutrients of Leaves (Macro and Micronutrients) -- 19. Nutritional Composition of Forage -- 20. Carbon Fixation (Carbon Sequestration) -- 21. Chemical Composition of Wood of Woody Plants -- 22. Litterfall Chemistry -- 23. Nutrient Cycle -- 24. Study of the Various Aspects of Mineral Nutrition, Accumulation and Distribution of Micro- and Macro-Elements in Woody Plants -- 25. Allied Microtechniques -- 26. Advances in Technology Development in Experimental Ecophysiology and Biochemistry -- 27. Modern Methods and Research Directions of Biochemistry of Boreal Woody Plants.
