Historia ludens : the playing historian
"This book aims to further a debate about aspects of 'playing' and 'gaming' in connection with history. Reaching out to academics, professionals and students alike, it pursues a dedicated interdisciplinary approach. Rather than only focusing on how professionals could learn from academics in history, the book also ponders the question of what academics can learn from gaming and playing for their own practice, such as gamification for teaching, or using 'play' as a paradigm for novel approaches into historical scholarship. 'Playing' and 'gaming' are thus understood as a broad cultural phenomenon that cross-pollinates the theory and practice of history and gaming alike"--
A quantitative study of historical videogames (1981-2015) / Yannick Rochat -- "The British Empire would gain new strength from nursery floors" : depictions of travel and place in nineteenth-century British board games / Holly Nielsen -- Designing and using digital games as historical learning contexts for primary school classrooms / Juan Hiriart -- Grand theft longboat : using videogames and medievalism to teach medieval history / Katherine J. Lewis -- The great history conundrum : could immersive games enhance an undergraduate "skills" course? / Alex Moseley -- Play as a technique for history in higher education / Pat Cullum -- The heritage game / Luke Holmes -- Respawning the past / Robert Whitaker -- Playing against the past? : representing the play element of historical cultures in videogames / Adam Chapman -- Fantasies of control : modding for ethnic violence and Nazi fetishism in historical strategy games / Andrew J. Salvati -- Charlemagne at the Battle of Gettysburg : video games and the Middle Ages / Andrew B.R. Elliott -- History, fandom, and online game communities / Nick Webber and E. Charlotte Stevens -- Ye olde FAQ : the Darklands game, immersiveness and fan fiction / Alexander von Lünen -- Arnold Hendrick on Darklands / Matt Barton and Arnold J. Hendrick -- Shooting for accuracy : historicity and video gaming / Lisa Traynor and Jonathan Ferguson -- Modern warfare : Call of duty, Battlefield, and the World Wars / Chris Kempshall -- "Man Spielt Nicht Mit Hakenkreuzen!' : imaginations of the Holocaust and crimes against humanity during World War II in digital games / Eugen Pfister.
