Biomedical imaging : the chemistry of labels, probes and contrast agents
Medical imaging : overview and the importance of contrast / John C. Waterton -- Biomedical imaging : advances in radiotracer and radiopharmaceutical chemistry / Robert N. Hanson -- Recent developments in PET and SPECT radioligands for CNS imaging / David Alagille, Ronald M. Baldwin and Gilles D. Tamagnan -- Design and synthesis of radiopharmaceuticals for SPECT imaging / David Hubers and Peter J.H. Scott -- MRI contrast agents : synthesis, applications and perspectives / Pier Lucio Anelli, Luciano Lattuada and Massimo Visigalli -- The future of biomedical imaging : synthesis and chemical properties of the DTPA and DOTA derivative ligands and their complexes / E. Brücher, Zs. Baranyai and Gy. Tircsó -- MRI contrast agents based on metallofullerenes / Chun-Ying Shu and Chun-Ru Wang -- Application of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to radiotherapy / Jenghwa Chang ... [et al.] -- Autoradiography in pharmaceutical discovery development / Eric G. Solon -- In vivo fluorescence optical and multi-modal imaging in pharmacological research : from chemistry to therapy monitoring / Rainer Kneuer ... [et al.] -- Fluorescence lifetime imaging applied to microviscosity mapping and fluorescence modification studies in cells / Klaus Suhling ... [et al.] -- Design and use of contrast agents for ultrasound imaging / Fabian Kiessling, Georg Schmitz and Jessica Gätjens -- Imaging as a CNS biomarker / Ricahrd Hargreaves, Lino Becerra and David Borsook -- Magnetic resonance imaging in drug development / Jin Xie and Xiaoyuan Chen -- MRI in practical drug discovery / K.K. Changani, M.V. Fachiri and S. Hotee -- Peering into the future of MRI contrast agents / Darren K. MacFarland
The focus of this new book is for medicinal chemists on the chemical agents that have been used, or might be required in the future, and the methods of synthesis for inserting the reporter groups. Medicinal chemists need to know the critical issues involved in using such chemical agents with regard to the biological applications - for instance - what properties are needed chemically and why? The topics covered in the book are: PET, SPECT, contrast agents, radioimaging/radionuclide conjugates, receptor mapping, small animal imaging (eg. WBAR - whole body autoradiography); photoinduced labelling, as well as chapters on the physical techniques used including: NMR, mass spectrometry and Xray. A key reference for academics, postgraduates, researchers, industrialists and professionals working in or joining this field
