Narrative, literacy and other skills : studies in intervention
Introduction to narrative, literacy and other skills: studies in intervention / Edy Veneziano and Ageliki Nicolopoulou -- 1. The developing language foundation for reading comprehension: Vocabulary, complex syntax and extended discourse from preschool to grade one / David K. Dickinson, Kerry G. Hofer and Bretta L. Rivera -- 2. Storybooks to promote emergent literacy in kindergarten classrooms / Hélène Makdissi, Andrée Boisclair, Pauline Sirois, Marie-Pierre Baron and Claudia Sanchez -- 3. Do children's oral retellings of narrative and informational texts predict -- Scores on a standardized reading comprehension test? / Helen Chen Kingston, James S. Kim, Mary Burkhauser, Bethany Mulimbi and David M. Quinn -- 4. Does emotional narrative context influence retention of newly learned words? / Katharina J. Rohlfing, Kerstin Nachtigäller, Anna Berner and Anouschka Foltz -- 5. Enhancing the mental-state language and emotion understanding components of toddlers' social cognition: The role of narrative and conversation / Ilaria Grazzani, Veronica Ornaghi, Alessia Agliati, Elisa Brazzelli and Maria Lucarelli -- 6. The effects of bookreading with and without mental state themes on preschoolers' theory of mind / Carolyn Brockmeyer Cates and Ageliki Nicolopoulou -- 7. Using narrative thinking in argumentative writing / Sarah Surrain, Leslie Duhaylongsod, Robert L. Selman and Catherine E. Snow -- 8. New frontiers in facilitating narrative skills in children and adolescents: A dynamic systems account incorporating eight narrative development stages / Keith E. Nelson and Kiren S. Khan -- 9. Precursors of narrative abilities: Non-present talk, temporality development and topic elaboration in early parent-child interaction / Akke de Blauw, Anne Baker and Judith Rispens -- 10. Enriching parent-child discourse during book sharing: The impact on children's story comprehension and narrative skills / Yaara Fine, Dorit Aram and Margalit Ziv -- 11. Investigating the effectiveness of the Our Story App to increase children's narrative skills: Lessons learnt from one English preschool classroom / Natalia Kucirkova, David Messer and Kieron Sheehy -- 12. Using a storytelling/story-acting practice to promote narrative and other decontextualized language skills in disadvantaged children / Ageliki Nicolopoulou -- 13. Promoting narratives through a short conversational intervention in typically-developing and high-functioning children with ASD / Edy Veneziano and Marie-Hélène Plumet.
