Time frequency and wavelets in biomedical signal processing
Time-frequency analysis methods with biomedical applications -- Recent advances in time-frequency representations: some theoretical foundation William J. Williams -- Biological applications and interpretations of time-frequency signal analysis William J. Williams -- Application of advanced time-frequency analysis techniques to doppler ultrasound S. Lawrence Marple, Tom Brotherton, and Doug Jones -- Analysis of EGG late potentials using time-frequency methods Harmut Dickhaus and Hartmut Heinrich -- Time-frequency distributions applied to uterine EMG: characterization and assessment Jacques Duchêne and Dominique Devedeux -- Time-grequency analyses of the electrogastrogram Zhiyue Lin and Jiande Z. Chen -- recent advances in time-frequency and time-scale methods Claudia Mello and Metin Akay -- Wavelets, Wavelet packets, and matching pursuits with biomedical applications -- Fast algorithms for wavelet transform computation Olivier Rioul and Pierre Duhamel -- Analysis of cellular vibrations in the living cochlea using the continuous wavelet transform and the short-time fourier transform M.C. Teich, C. Heneghan, and S.M. Khanna -- Iterative processing method using gabor wavelets and the wavelet transform for the analysis of phonocardiogram signals Mustafa Matalgah, Jerome Knopp, and Salah Mawagdeh -- Wavelet feature extraction from neurophysiological signals Mingui Sun and Robert J. Sclabassi -- Experiments with adapted wavelet de-noising for medical signals and images Ronald R. Coifman and Mladen Victor Wickerhauser -- Speech enhancement for hearing aids Janet C. Rutledge -- From continuous wavelet transform to wavelet packets: application to the estimation of pulmonary microvascular pressure Mohsine Karrakchou and Murat Kunt -- In pursuit of time-frequency representation of brain signals P.J. Durka and K.J. Blinowska -- EEG spike directors based on different decompositions: a comparative study L. Senhadji, J.J. Bellanger, and G. Carrault -- Wavelets and medical imaging -- Discrete dyadic wavelet transform for multidimensional feature analysis Iztok Koren and Andrew Laine -- Hexagonal QMF banks and wavelets Sergio Schuler and Andrew Laine -- Inversion of the radon transform under wavelet constraints Berkman Sahiner and Andrew E. Yagle -- Wavelets applied to mammograms Walter B. Richardson -- Hybrid wavelet transform for image enhancement for computer-assisted diagnosis and telemedicine applications Laurence P. Clarke ... [et al.] -- Medical image enhancement using wavelet transform and arithmedic coding Pongskorn Saipetch ... [et al.] -- Adapted wavelet encoding in functional magnetic resonance imaging Dennis M. Healy, Douglas W. Warner, and John B. Weaver -- Tutorial overview of a stabilization algorithm for limited-angle tomography Tom Olson -- Wavelet compression of medical images Armando Manduca -- Wavelets, neural networks, and fractals -- Single side scaling wavelet frame and neural network Qinghua Zhang -- Analysis of evoked potentials using wavelet networks Hartmut Heinrich and Hartmut Dickhaus -- Self-organizing wavelet-based neural networks Kunikazu Kobayashi -- On wavelets and fractal processes Patrick Flandrin -- Fractal analysis of heart rate variability Russell Fischer and Metin Akay
