Reconciling translingualism and second language writing
"This book brings together top scholars on different sides of the important scholarly debate between the translingual movement and the field of second language writing. Drawing on a wide range of perspectives, this volume examines the differences in theory and practice with the hope of promoting reconciliation between the two schools of thought. Chapters address the tensions in the relationship between translingualism and second language writing and explore programs, pedagogies and research that highlight commonalities between the two camps. With contributions from leading scholars, this book comprehensively addresses the issues related to this contentious debate and offers ways to bring the two camps into conversation with one another in a way that promotes effective teaching practices. By providing a panoramic view of the current situation, the text is a timely and unique contribution to TESOL, Applied Linguistics, and Composition Studies"--
Introduction: Reconciling Translingualism and Second Language Writing / Zhaozhe Wang & Tony Silva -- Part I. Reconciling Discourses -- The Discursive Construction of "Translingualism vs. Second Language Writing:" What We've Created and How We Might Move On / Christine Tardy -- Future Perfect Tense: Kairos as a Heuristic for Reconciliation / Jay Jordan -- Part II. Reconciling Languages -- Addressing Language Statuses in the Writing of Multilingual Students / Suresh Canagarajah -- Language Difference, Translinguality, and L2 Writing: Conflations, Confusions, and the Work of Writing / Bruce Horner -- It's Always Already about Language: Hopeful Paths for Productive Exchange between 2nd Language Writing and Translingualism / Christiane Donahue -- Two Sides of the Same Coin? The Complementary Role of Fixity and Fluidity Orientations in Writing Studies / Jeroen Gevers -- Part III. Reconciling Scholarship -- Weathering the Translingual Storm / Paul Kei Matsuda -- A Translingual Scholar and Second Language Writing Scholar Talk It Out: Steps Toward Reconciliation / Michelle Cox & Missy Watson -- Do There Really Have to be Two Sides? A Possible Path forward for Translingual and Second Language Writing Scholars / Dana Ferris -- Critical Pragmatism as a Middle Ground in Discussions of Linguistic Diversity / Todd Ruecker & Shawna Shapiro -- The Yin-Yang of Writing Education in Globalization / Xiaoye You -- Part IV Reconciling Institutions -- Toward a Performative Commitment to Heterogeneity / Ryuko Kubota -- Tear Down the Wall: Institutional Structures vs. Translingual Realities / Jonathan Hall & Maria Jerskey -- Part V. Reconciling Curricula and Pedagogies -- Weighing English: Accounting for Power in Translingual Writing / Lisa R. Arnold -- Beyond Disciplinary Divides: Coming to Terms with the Centrality of Translation / Nancy Bou Ayash -- With or Without Translingualism / Qian Du, Ha Ram Kim, Jerry Won Lee, Karen Lenz, Neda Sahranavard, Sarah Sok -- Opening the Door: Towards a Framework for a Translingual Approach / Brooke R. Schreiber -- Teaching and Learning Paths Toward Reconciling Translingualism and Second Language Writing  / Carol Severino.
