Exile in global literature and culture : homes found and lost
Introduction: The Overreaching Arc of Exile  / Asher Z. Milbauer and James M. Sutton --  Exile and Return in Jewish Teaching and Tradition  / David Patterson -- Exile, Dislocation and Roman Identity in the Age of Augustus / Sarah T. Cohen -- "I Am not What I Am": Considerations of Shakespearean Exile  / James M. Sutton -- The Problem of Exile for James Joyce  / Michael Patrick Gillespie -- José Martí: Just Another Face in the Crowd /  Uva de Aragón -- Exile as Metaphor and Memory: The Case of Salman Rushdie  / Martin Tucker -- The Reluctant Exile: Remembering the Exilic Legacy of the Hungarian  Jewish Poet /  Miklós Radnóti,  Zsuzsanna Ozsváth -- Elie Wiesel: Writer as Witness to and in Exile / Alan L. Berger -- Exiled from the Mother Tongue: Russian Writers Abroad / David Markish -- The Exiled Language  / Norman Manea -- Dreamers and Lifers: Exile Terminable and Interminable  / Gustavo Pérez Firmat -- Of Poetry, Place, and Personhood: or the Exacting Resonances of  Language / Abena P. A. Busia  -- Landscapes and Geographies of Chilean Exile  / Marjorie Agosín -- On the State of Exile Studies: Past, Present and Future  / Guy Stern -- Traveling with My Selves  / Ana Menéndez -- Mirages of Imaginary Exile / Richard Blanco -- The Literature of Exile: Reading and Teaching  / Holli Levitsky -- An Interview with Cuban-American Artist, Humberto Calzada: Exile, Nostalgia and  the Art of Memory  / Asher Z. Milbauer and James M. Sutton.
"Prompted by centuries of warfare, political oppression, natural disasters, and economic collapses, exile has had an enormous impact not only on individuals who have undergone transplantation from one culture to another, but also on the host societies they have joined and those worlds they have left behind. Written by prominent literary critics, creative authors, and artists, the essays gathered within Exile in Global Literature and Culture: Homes Found and Lost meditates upon the painful journeys-geographic, spiritual, emotional, psychological-brought about due to exilic rupture, loss and dislocation. Yet, exile also fosters potential pleasures and rewards: to extend scholar Martin Tucker's formulation, wherever the exile might land in flight, he bears with him the sweetness of survival, the triumph of transcendence, the luxury of liminality, the invitation to innovate and invent in new lands. Indeed, exile embodies both blessing and curse, homes found and lost. Furthermore, this book adheres to (and test) the premise that exile's deepest and innermost currents are manifested through writing and other artistic forms"--
