E-business, e-government & small and medium-size enterprises : opportunities and challenges
Much of the e-commerce and IT research in small and medium sized enterprises (SME) indicates that these smaller businesses are lagging behind in implementing technological advances. This raises concerns for these SME's success as the Information Age becomes ever more of a reality. e-Business, e-Government & Small and Medium-Size Enterprises: Opportunities and Challenges offers a collection of chapters highlighting successful policy and practices which encourage SME's success in numerous different countries. Such a collection of international experiences and expertise offers policymakers
Section I Electronic Commerce Initiatives and Policy Implications in Different Countries in the World -- Chapter I The Government and eGovernance: A Policy Perspective on Small Businesses in New Zealand Nabeel A. Y. Al-Qirim, Brian J. Corbitt 1 -- Chapter II Building Infrastructure for SME Adoption of E-Business: The Canadian Experience Dawn N. Jutla 19 -- Chapter III Helping SMEs to Engage in Electronic Commerce: The Dutch Way Maria-Eugenia Iacob, Piet Boekhoudt, Freek Ebeling 46 -- Chapter IV E-Commerce as a Business Enabler for Small and Medium Size Enterprises: Issues and Perspectives from Singapore Leo Tan Wee Him, R. Subramaniam 65 -- Chapter V An SME Experience of E-Commerce: Some Considerations for Policy Formulation in Australia Stephen B. Chau, Paul Turner 91 -- Chapter VI Obstacles to SMEs for E-Adoption in the Asia Pacific Region Sushil K. Sharma, Nilmini Wickramasinghe 112 -- Chapter VII Formulating Policy on E-Commerce and Trade for SMEs in the Asia Pacific Region: An APEC Study John Breen, Suzanne Bergin-Seers, Stephen Burgess, Gordon Campbell, Muhammad Mahmood, Robert Sims 134 -- Chapter VIII EU E-Commerce Policies: Enhancing the Competitiveness of SMEs Through Innovation Anne Wiggins 156 -- Section II Policy Implication for Networked SMEs in Supply Chain -- Chapter IX B2B E-Commerce Infrastructure Success Factors for Small Companies in Developing Economies Murray E. Jennex, Don Amoroso, Olayele Adelakun 185 -- Chapter X Comparison of Factors Pertaining to the Adoption and Non-Adoption of Electronic Commerce in Formally Networked and Non-Networked Regional SMEs: A Study of Swedish Small Businesses Robert MacGregor, Lejla Vrazalic, Deborah Bunker, Sten Carlsson, Monika Magnusson 206 -- Chapter XI Bridging B2B E-Commerce Gaps for Taiwanese SMEs: Issues of Government Support and Policies Yu Chung William Wang, Michael S.H. Heng 244 -- Section III Policy Push and Monitoring -- Chapter XII Providing Information for Business: Government Strategy for the Online World Tanya Castleman, Marina Cavill 269 -- Chapter XIII Government Promotion of E-Commerce in SMEs: The Australian Government's ITOL Program G. Michael McGrath, Elizabeth More 287
