Wireless communications and networking
An overview of wireless systems -- Teletraffic engineering -- Radio propagation and propagation path-loss models -- An overview of digital communication and transmission -- Fundamentals of cellular communications -- Multiple access techniques -- Architecture of a wireless wide-area network (WWAN) -- Speech coding and channel coding -- Modulation schemes -- Antennas, diversity, and link analysis -- Spread spectrum (SS) and CDMA systems -- Mobility management in wireless networks -- Security in wireless systems -- Mobile network and transport layer -- Wide-area wireless networks (WANs)-GSM evolution -- Wide-area wireless networks-cdmaOne evolution -- Planning and design of wide-area wireless networks -- Wireless application protocol -- Wireless personal area network-bluetooth -- Wireless personal area networks: low rate and high rate -- Wireless local area networks -- Interworking between wireless local area networks and 3G wireless wide area networks -- Fourth generation systems and new wireless technologies
This book provides comprehensive coverage of mobile data networking and mobile communications under a single cover for diverse audiences including managers, practicing engineers, and students who need to understand this industry. In the last two decades, many books have been written on the subject of wireless communications and networking. However, mobile data networking and mobile communications were not fully addressed in a unified fashion. This book fills that gap in the literature and is written to provide essentials of wireless communications and wireless networking, including Wireless Personal Area Networks (WPAN), Wireless Local Area Networks (WLAN), and Wireless Wide Area Networks (WWAN). The first ten chapters of the book focus on the fundamentals that are required to study mobile data networking and mobile communications. Numerous solved examples have been included to show applications of theoretical concepts. In addition, unsolved problems are given at the end of each chapter for practice. (A solutions manual will be available.) After introducing fundamental concepts, the book focuses on mobile networking aspects. Four chapters are devoted on the discussion of WPAN, WLAN, WWAN, and internetworking between WLAN and WWAN. Remaining seven chapters deal with other aspects of mobile communications such as mobility management, security, cellular network planning, and 4G systems. A unique feature of this book that is missing in most of the available books on wireless communications and networking is a balance between the theoretical and practical concepts. Moreover, this book can be used to teach a one/two semester course in mobile data networking and mobile communications to ECE and CS students. *Details the essentials of Wireless Personal Area Networks(WPAN), Wireless Local Are Networks (WLAN), and Wireless Wide Area Networks (WWAN) *Comprehensive and up-to-date coverage including the latest in standards and 4G technology *Suitable for classroom use in senior/first year grad level courses. Solutions manual and other instructor support available
