Handbook of innovation and standards
Contents: Foreword / by Richard Lipsey -- 1. Introduction : unravelling the relationship between standards and innovation / Richard Hawkins and Knut Blind -- Part I History, theory and evidence -- 2. Standards and innovation : a brief survey of empirical evidence and transmission mechanisms / G.M.P. Swann and Ray Lambert -- 3. The economic functions of standards in the innovation process / Knut Blind -- 4. Standards, systems of innovation and policy / Richard Hawkins -- 5. Platforms and standards : an historical perspective / Edward Steinmueller -- 6. Towards a functional classification of standards for innovation research / Tineke M. Egyedi and J. Roland Ortt -- Part II Standards, innovation and industry -- 7. Standards and expansion paths in high-tech industries / Gregory Tassey -- 8. Measurement, standards and productivity spillovers / Michael King, Ray Lambert and Paul Temple -- 9. Impact of service standardization on service innovation / Henk J. de Vries, Paul Moritz Wiegmann and Claudia de Koning -- 10. 'Smart industry' and the confluence of standards / Claire Stolwijk, Matthijs Punter and Carlos Montalvo -- 11. Where patents and standards come together / Rudi Bekkers -- 12. Standards, patents and innovation / Timothy Simcoe and Cesare Righi -- Part III Standards, innovation and markets -- 13. The use of standards by firms / John Hudson and Marta Orviska -- 14. Markets, standardization and innovation : reflections on the European single market / Christian Frankel and Jean-Pierre Galland -- 15. Standards and technological substitution : the case of transportation systems / Eric J. Iversen -- 16. Standards, innovation and business models : the case of digital radio / Simon Delaere and Pieter Ballon -- 17. Standardization and market framing : the case of nanotechnology / Aurélie Delemarle -- Part IV Strategies, standards and innovation : a practitioner perspective -- 18. Corporate standardization management and innovation / Kai Jakobs -- 19. ISO 14000 environmental standards : implementing innovation in management and measures / Robert Page -- 20. Standardization, innovation, and reality : matching theory and practice / Carl F. Cargill -- Index.
Innovation and standardization might seem polar opposites, but over many years various scholars have noted close connections between the two. This Handbook assembles a broad range of thinking on this subject, with contributions from several disciplinary perspectives by over 30 leading scholars and experienced practitioners. Collectively, they summarize and synthesize the existing body of knowledge - theory and evidence - pertaining to standards and innovation, and provide insights into how this knowledge can be useful to scholars, industrial strategists, policy-makers and standards practitioners. Drawn from leading experts in several social science disciplines, this Handbook provides new insights into innovation processes and systems using theoretical, empirical and applied approaches. By situating standards and standardization as specific factors which play distinctive roles in innovation-driven growth, it establishes that standardization (doing things the same way) is an essential component of innovation (doing things differently). The book also provides novel and practical insight into how standards are incorporated into innovation strategies and policies. Comprehensive and original, this collection will be a vital resource for all students and academics of social, natural and engineering science communities. Policy-makers and practitioners will also find a wealth of experience and knowledge within its pages
