Sustainable management of soil and environment
Fertilizers have been used extensively around the globe since the Green Revolution, due to the high subsidies. However, extensive fertilizer use exacerbates soil degradation and causes yield stagnation, and as a result threatens food security and soil sustainability, especially in developing countries. This means that sustainable soil and environmental management are vital to provide food and nutritional security for present and future generations. This has led to the International Union of Soil Science (IUSS) declaring 2015-2024 the International Decade of Soils. This book focuses on the impact of sustainable management of soil and environment on improving the functioning of soil-ecosystems and agronomic productivity, and also discusses food security, nutrient cycling, recent advances in INM technologies, eco-friendly cultivation, agricultural practices to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, as well as conservation agriculture and its effects, and strategies for soil sustainability. Offering a comprehensive overview of management in the context of the sustainability of soil and the agroecosystems that it supports, it demonstrates the options available and provides insights into restoring soil health and matching soil nutrient supply with crop demand to ensure nutritional security in an eco-friendly environment
Chapter 1. Soil and Environmental Management -- Chapter 2. Strategies to Practice Climate-Smart Agriculture to Improve the Livelihoods under Rice -Wheat Cropping System in South Asia -- Chapter 3. Soil Erosion and Management Strategies -- Chapter 4. Conservation Agriculture: Perspectives to Soil and Environmental Management in Indo-Gangetic Plains of South Asia -- Chapter 5. Improved Soil Environment under Conservation Agriculture -- Chapter 6. Legumes for Sustainable Soil and Crop Management -- Chapter 7. Legume Root Rot Control Through Soil Management for Sustainable Agriculture -- Chapter 8. Fate and Behavior of Pesticides and Their Effect on Soil Biological Properties under Climate Change Scenario -- Chapter 9. Agricultural Socio-economic Effects in Colombia due to Degradation of Soils -- Chapter 10. Soil Microbes for Sustainable Agriculture. Chapter 11. Enzymes in Relation to Soil Biological Properties and Sustainability.
