Model-Based Software Performance Analysis
Poor performance is one of the main quality-related shortcomings that cause software projects to fail. Thus, the need to address performance concerns early during the software development process is fully acknowledged, and there is a growing interest in the research and software industry communities towards techniques, methods and tools that permit to manage system performance concerns as an integral part of software engineering. Model-based software performance analysis introduces performance concerns in the scope of software modeling, thus allowing the developer to carry on performance analysis throughout the software lifecycle.  With this book, Cortellessa, Di Marco and Inverardi provide the cross-knowledge that allows developers to tackle software performance issues from the very early phases of software development. They explain the basic concepts of performance analysis and describe the most representative methodologies used to annotate and transform software models into performance models. To this end, they go all the way from performance primers through software and performance modeling notations to the latest transformation-based methodologies.   As a result, their book is a self-contained reference text on software performance engineering, from which different target groups will benefit: professional software engineers and graduate students in software engineering will learn both basic concepts of performance modeling and new methodologies; while performance specialists will find out how to investigate software performance model building.  Vittorio Cortellessa - Ph.D. in Computer Science from University of Roma 'Tor Vergata' (1995). Post-doc fellow at the European Space Agency (ESRIN, 1997). Post-doc at University of Roma 'Tor Vergata'(1998-1999). Research Assistant Professor at CSEE, West Virginia University, and Research Contractor at DISP, University of Roma 'Tor Vergata' (2000-2001). Assistant Professor at University of L'Aquila (2002-2005). Since March 2005 he holds an Associate Professorship at the same institution. He has been involved in several research projects in the areas of performance analysis of software/hardware systems, component-based software systems, fault-tolerant systems and parallel discrete event simulation, which are his main research areas.   Antinisca Di Marco - Ph.D. in Computer Science from University of L'Aquila in 2005. She currently holds a Post-Doc position at the Computer Science Department of University College of London, working in the Software Engineering Group. Her main research interests are: Software Architecture, Software Performance Analysis, Integration of Functional and Non-functional software validation.   Paola Inverardi - She is professor at the Computer Science Department at University of L'Aquila. Her research interests are in the field of the application of formal techniques to the development of software systems. These include software specification and verification of concurrent and distributed systems, deduction systems, and Software Architectures. Current research interests mainly concentrate in the field of software architectures specifically addressing the verification and analysis of software architecture properties, both behavioral and quantitative. Recently she is working on the design and development of mobile applications.
