Geofinance between political and financial geographies : a focus on the semi-periphery of the global financial system
"This timely book offers important new insights into the boundaries between political and financial geographies, focusing on the links between the changing strategies, policies and institutions of the state. It investigates banks and other financial institutions affected by both state policies and a globalizing financial system, and the financial resources available to firms as well as households. In so doing, the book highlights how an empirical focus on the semi-periphery of the financial system may generate new perspectives on the entanglement between geopolitics and finance. Chapters explore a range of place-specific relations, highlighting the impact of state-led reforms, the importance of models, innovation and adaptation to local conditions, and bank intermediation. Conceptually, the book engages with insights from a variety of disciplines in order to explore the connections between geo-political and geo-economic discourses, public finance and foreign policy, the practices and localization of financial institutions, and the evolution of strategies for globalizing firms. Political and financial geographers will find this book to be a compelling read, as it sheds new light on the semi-periphery, which is often overlooked in studies addressing the global financial system. Economic policy-makers working on the nexus between politics, finance and development will also benefit from reading this book"--
Contents: Foreword by Dariusz Wójcik -- Introduction. Theorizing semi-peripheral geographies of finance and banking / Christian Sellar, Silvia Grandi and Juvaria Jafri -- 1. Geofinance/banking between political and financial geographies / Christian Sellar, Silvia Grandi and Juvaria Jafri -- Part I: Spatial structures of finance and banking -- 2. The geography of international financial institutions: what can this tell us? / Silvia Grandi -- 3. Shadow banking: a geographical interpretation / Gianfranco Battisti -- 4. Spatial development and offshore financial chains / Umberto Rosati -- 5. Financial system and urban networks: an empirical analysis of Brazilian territory / Fabio Betioli Contel -- Part II: The state-bank-firm nexus in the finance semi-peripheries -- 6. Italian banks and business services as knowledge pipelines for SMEs: examples from central and eastern Europe / Christian Sellar -- 7. Spatial aspects of the Russian banking system: transformation and access to credit for small Russian firms / Svetlana Ageeva and Anna Mishura -- 8. Bulgaria's banking system: outside and inside the financial geography of Europe / Elena Stavrova -- 9. Banking reform in Vietnam: persistence of the state? / Guanie Lim and Thong Tien Nguyen -- Part III: Micro-level action and reaction of people and firms -- 10. Cross-currency swaps and local credit money creation in the Turkish banking system / Engin Yılmaz -- 11. Geographical aspects of recent banking crises in Italy / Marco Percoco -- 12. Shadow financial citizenship and the contradictions of financial inclusion in Pakistan / Juvaria Jafri -- Index.
