The handbook of Dewey's educational theory and practice
Part 3: Dewey and the Scholar-Practitioner Educational Leader -- Educational Leadership for Democratic Culture / Robert Karaba -- Civic Efficiency as A Democratic Ideal: Social Renewal through Dewey's Continuous, Integrated Education / Charles L. Lowery and Connor Fewell -- Organic Pedagogy: Where Dewey's Democracy and Foucault's Poststructuralism Meet: Pedagogical Experiences, Applications, and Critique / Chetanath Guatam -- Experienced, but Not Yet Educated: How Dewey Should Still Contribute to Educational Philosophy / Chance D. Mays -- Implications of Dewey's Pragmatism for Digital Media Pedagogy / Lance E. Mason -- How the Dewey-Lippmann Debate Informs Contemporary Education Policy: How the Dewey-Lippmann Debate Informs Contemporary Education Policy / Monica Hatfield Price -- John Dewey and the "Problem" of the Mundane: Implications for Philosophy of Educational Administration / Ali H. Hachem.
"In the last twenty-five years there has been a great deal of scholarship about John Dewey's work, as well as continued appraisal of his relevance for our time, especially in his contributions to pragmatism and progressivism in teaching, learning, and school learning. The Handbook of Dewey's Educational Theory and Practice provides a comprehensive, accessible, richly theoretical yet practical guide to the educational theories, ideals, and pragmatic implications of the work of John Dewey, America's preeminent philosopher of education. Edited by a multidisciplinary team with a wide range of perspectives and experience, this volume will serve as a state-of-the-art reference to the hugely consequential implications of Dewey's work for education and schooling in the 21st century. Organized around a series of concentric circles ranging from the purposes of education to appropriate policies, principles of schooling at the organizational and administrative level, and pedagogical practice in Deweyan classrooms, the chapters will connect Dewey's theoretical ideas to their pragmatic implications"--
Part 1: Dewey and Educational Theory -- Dewey's Social Imaginary of Democratic Education: Democracy's Role in Educating a Democratic Citizenry / Patrick M. Jenlink -- What Is a Democracy?: What Does Education in a Democracy Need to Be According to Dewey? / Elizabeth Meadows -- Mindfulness and Progressive Education / Kyle A. Greenwalt and Cuong H. Nguyen -- John Dewey and Social Justice Education / Peter Nelsen -- John Dewey and Feminism / Barbara J. Thayer-Bacon -- Deweyan Pragmatism as Requisite to Postmodern Thought / Jessica A. Heybach and Eric C. Sheffield -- Critical Thinking and Democratic Schooling / Maura Striano -- Education for Democratic Citizenship from Critical Thinking to Inquiry Learning / William R. Caspary -- Part 2: Dewey and Educational Practice -- A Dewey Framework for Moral Training for Democracy in Education / Alison Taysum -- Examining Educative Versus Mis-Educative Experiences in Learning to Teach / Patrick M. Jenlink and Karen Embry Jenlink -- Souls in the Lab: Building Rich Practical Experiences for Student Teachers and Young Children / Stephanie Burdick-Shepherd -- A Deweyan Faith in Democratic Education: A Teacher's Dedication to Ensuring All Students Are Included / Michael E. Hess and Theodore J. Hutchinson -- Promoting Educational Equity through Democratizing Intelligence / Laura M. Harrison and Shah Hasan -- Living Curriculum as Commonplace / Margaret Macintyre Latta, Rhonda Draper, Kelly Hanson and Karen Ragoonaden -- Adaptive Challenge: Teachers as Lead Professionals for Democratic Living / Daniel J. Castner
