The political economy of international finance in an age of inequality : soft currencies, hard landings
The essays in this book describe and analyze the current contours of the international financial system, covering both developed and developing countries, and focusing on the ways in which the current international financial system structures, and is affected by, profound inequalities in the international system. This keen analysis of key topics in international finance takes a heterodox perspective, with focus on the role of inequalities in power in shaping the structure and outcomes in the international sphere. The Political Economy of International Finance in an Age of Inequality begins with a discussion of capital flows and financial crisis, moves into an up-to-date discussion of the political economy of currency unions, and then focuses on analysis of capital flows and economic crises. New and established academics present a broad variety of special case studies within that general framework focusing on understudied yet important up to date cases from understudied regions and countries for a unique and important exploration of the field. This book will be of interest to students and specialists in international finance, who will benefit from the combination of the strong general framework and illustrative case studies. Its approach will appeal both to generalists and specialists
Contents: 1. Introduction / Gerald Epstein -- Part I Capital flows and financial crises -- 2. Financial crises among emerging and developing economies in the modern era: a brief history and some stylized themes / Elissa Braunstein -- 3. Too good to be true: what the Icelandic crisis revealed about global finance / Nina Eichacker -- 4. Re-analyzing the gender-specific effects of the Great Recession / Sana Khalil -- Part II Managing international capital flows: costs and dilemmas -- 5. Capital controls in a time of crisis / Ilene Grabel -- 6. Easing the trilemma through reserve accumulation?: the Latin American case / Luis D. Rosero -- 7. The costs of foreign exchange intervention: trends and implications / Devika Dutt -- 8. Monetary policy under financial dollarization: the case of Eurasian Economic Union / Zhandos Ybrayev -- Part III Power relations in the international financial system: global and regional dimensions -- 9. The cost of a SWIFT kick: estimating the cost of financial sanctions on Iran / Mariam Majd -- 10. Changing rules of the game of global finance: glimpses from the Argentina's sovereign debt restructuring / Mohit Arora -- 11. Solidarity vs. similarity: the political economy of currency unions / Francisco Perez -- 12. International financial flows and the future of EU-Turkey relations / Hasan Comert -- Index.
