Ten books that shaped the British empire : creating an imperial commons
Remaking the empire from Newgate : Wakefield's A letter from Sydney / Tony Ballantyne -- Jane Eyre at home and abroad / Charlotte Macdonald -- Macaulay's History of England : a book that shaped nation and empire / Catherine Hall -- "The Day Will Come" : Charles H. Pearson's National life and character : a forecast / Marilyn Lake -- Victims of "British justice"? A century of wrong as anti-imperial tract, core narrative of the Afrikaner "nation," and victim-based solidarity-building discourse / André du Toit -- The text in the world, the world through the text : Robert Baden-Powell's Scouting for boys / Elleke Boehmer -- Hind Swaraj : translating sovereignty / Tridip Suhrud -- Totaram Sanadhya's Fiji Mein Mere Ekkis Varsh : a history of empire and nation in a minor key / Mrinalini Sinha -- C.L.R. James's The Black Jacobins and the making of the modern Atlantic world / Aaron Kamugisha -- Ethnography and cultural innovation in Mau Mau detention camps : Gakaara wa Wanjau's Mĩhĩrĩga ya aagĩkũyũ / Derek R. Peterson.
Looking at ten books that shaped the modern British Empire, the contributors examine imperial classics, anticolonial blockbusters, and a range of pamphlets, assessing the effects of each one on key aspects of imperial history.
Contents -- Acknowledgments -- Introduction. The Spine of Empire? : Books and the Making of an Imperial Commons - Antoinette Burton and Isabel Hofmeyr -- 1. Remaking the Empire from Newgate: Wakefield's A Letter from Sydney - Tony Ballantyne -- 2. Jane Eyre at Home and Abroad - Charlotte Macdonald -- 3. Macaulay's History of England: A Book That Shaped Nation and Empire - Catherine Hall -- 4. "The Day Will Come": Charles H. Pearson's National Life and Character: A Forecast - Marilyn Lake -- 5. Victims of "British Justice"? A Century of Wrong as Anti-imperial Tract, Core Narrative of the Afrikaner "Nation," and Victim-Based Solidarity-Building Discourse - André du Toit -- 6. The Text in the World, the World through the Text: Robert Baden-Powell's Scouting for Boys - Elleke Boehmer -- 7. Hind Swaraj: Translating Sovereignty - Tridip Suhrud -- 8. Totaram Sanadhya's Fiji Mein Mere Ekkis Varsh: A History of Empire and Nation in a Minor Key - Mrinalini Sinha -- 9. C. L. R. James's The Black Jacobins and the Making of the Modern Atlantic World - Aaron Kamugisha -- 10. Ethnography and Cultural Innovationin Mau Mau Detention Camps: Gakaara wa Wanjau's Mĩhĩrĩga ya Agĩkũyũ - Derek R. Peterson -- Bibliography -- Contributors -- Index.
