Early years pedagogy in practice : a guide for students and practitioners
Introduction -- Chapter 1. The early years pedagogue: Underpinning the role of the adult -- Chapter 2. Exploring pedagogy for the early years: Building your signature early years pedagogy -- Chapter 3. A holistic and flourishing pedagogy: Promoting a love for lifelong learning -- Chapter 4. The pedagogy of play: The natural language of the child -- Chapter 5. Child initiated and adult led pedagogy: Moving from a balance to embracing the synergy -- Chapter 6. A participatory pedagogy: The human right of every child -- Chapter 7. Relational pedagogy: Relationships in dialogic spaces -- Chapter 8. The pedagogy of nature: Moving beyond outdoor play -- Chapter 9. Creative pedagogy: Nurturing the characteristics of creativity -- Chapter 10. A pedagogy for parent and families: Embodying the natural pedagogy of parents in early  childhood education -- Chapter 11. A culturally responsive pedagogy: Embracing children's cultures and communities -- Chapter 12. Sustainable pedagogical leadership: The preservation and development of early years  pedagogies -- Final Thought: Towards lived pedagogies.
"This accessible text encourages readers to understand and confidently engage with distinctive early years pedagogy. It shows how pedagogy not only underpins the Early Years curriculum but is also inherent in the role of the adult and the experiences that are offered to young children. The book explains what the differing early years pedagogies are, why they are encouraged, and the knowledge, skills and practice that are required to work with them. Emphasising that what works in one situation may not in another and a wider pedagogical knowledge is essential to ensure quality outcomes for children, it considers key topics such as: The role of the pedagogue and developing your own style -- Promoting a lifelong love of learning in children under your care -- Sensitivity and inclusion for all children's cultures and communities. The promoting the rights of every child under your care Incorporating reflection points and research tasks to support independent learning, this is essential reading for students on Early Childhood Studies courses and Early Years Foundation Degrees as well as early years practitioners"--
