Fracture Classifications in Clinical Practice
Residents and junior doctors on rotation are under constant pressure to have accurate and up-to-date information available to them. This is never more important than when on rotation in the Emergency Room. Junior doctors often lack experience in orthopaedics making the recognition and accurate identification of fractures and their treatment a challenging task. This comprehensive handbook contains a wealth of illustrations and explanatory text, which is organized into a concise repository of information on fractures according to the most widely used classification systems. The classification systems covered include AO and OTA systems. This allows readers the opportunity to make a correct diagnosis using the appropriate criteria, while simplifying the planning of further management and ensuring that communication with experienced staff is more effective. TOC:Foreword, Periprosthet Fr, THA, Tibial, TEA, Atlantoax Rotary Sublux/Disloc, Fr of Odontoid Proc, Injuries C3-7, Compression Fr, Burst Fr, Fr Dislocation, Clavicle, Acromioclav J, Sternoclav J, Scapula, Humerus, Trans-, Inter-, Condylar, Capitellum, Glenohumeral, Post Glenohum, Inf Glenohum, Elbow, Divergent Disloc, Olecranon, Radial, Forearm, Dist radius, Specific Fr, Hip, Fem Head Neck, Inter- Subtrochanteric, Pelvis, Acetab, Fem Shaft, Dist Femur, Knee, Patellar, Tibal Plateau, Tib/Fib Shaft, Pilon, Ankle, Foot, Midfoot, Cuboid, Tarsometatarsal J, 1st Metatarsophal J, Prox Humerus, Clavicle, Acromioclavicular J Inj, Scapula, Glenohumeral, Supracondylar Humerus, Lat Med Condylar Physeal, Transphyseal Fr, Capitellar Fr, T-Condylar, Radial head, neck, Elbow Disloc, Pediatric forearm, Monteggia Fr, Scaphoid, Pediatr hip, knee,Fr, Tibial tubercle Fr, Tibial spine, Patella Fr, Knee disloc, Pediatric tibia fib, Diaphyseal Fr of tib, Pediatr ankle, Pediatr foot, Talus, Tarsometatarsal Inj, Wrist
- Contains descriptions of all the major fracture classifications in a portable and practical format  Seyed Behrooz Mostofi, BSc, MBBS, MS (Orth) is Specialist Registrar in Orthopaedics in South Thames Deanery. He is based at Queen Mary's Hospital, Sidcup. He is also the author is several other books in Orthopaedics. His most recent previous book 'Who's Who in Orthopaedics' has been published by Springer-Verlag and it will be available in the market from October 2004.
