Ukrainian private law and the European area of justice
Im Fokus des vorliegenden Bands steht die Entwicklung des ukrainischen Privatrechts im Kontext seiner fortschreitenden Europäisierung. Dieser Prozess wird gegenwärtig in erster Linie durch das Assoziierungsabkommen aus dem Jahr 2014 bestimmt, das die Ukraine zur Annäherung diverser Rechtsgebiete an das Recht der EU verpflichtet. Allerdings wäre es vorschnell, die europäische Integration des ukrainischen Zivilrechts auf die Umsetzung der in den Anhängen des Assoziierungsabkommens aufgelisteten Richtlinien zu reduzieren. Die Europäisierung des ukrainischen Privatrechts ist vielmehr im Kontext einer wertebasierten Europäisierung der ukrainischen Gesellschaft zu sehen.Inhalts&uuml;bersichtI. From Association to Harmonisation  Jürgen Basedow: EU Private Law in Ukraine. The Impact of the Association Agreement –  Eugenia Kurzynsky-Singer: The Implementation of the EU Acquis in Ukraine: Lessons from Legal Transplants –  Natalia Pankevich: EU-Ukraine Association: An Asymmetrical Partnership –  Danilo Flores: Allure and Rejection: Legal Frameworks Governing EU-Ukraine Relations before the Association Agreement II. Reform of Ukrainian Justice  Vitaliy Korolenko: The reform of the Ukrainian judicial system and the civil proceedings in the context of the Association Agreement –  Caroline von Gall: Beyond legal amendment. Ukrainian judiciary needs more than a change of laws III. Modernisation of Ukrainian Private Law  Roman Majdanyk: Development of Ukrainian private law in the context of its Europeanization –  Volodymyr Korol: Modernization of Ukrainian Cross-border Litigation and Conflict Law relating to contractual disputes in commercial matters on the way towards European Area of Justice –  Volodymyr Kochyn: Non-Entrepreneurial Legal Entities in Ukraine: the Application of the European Experience IV. EU and Eastern Europe  Natalia Pankevich: Eastern Neighbourhood of the EU: Alternatives for Integrative Projects –  Rainer Kulms: (Private) Law in Transition: The Acquis Communautaire as a Challenge for East European Law Makers –  Christa Jessel-Holst: Harmonization of Private Law as Exemplified in South East European Countries
The present collection of essays addresses the development of Ukrainian private law in the course of its ongoing Europeanization. This process is determined by the Association Agreement between the EU and Ukraine, which was concluded in 2014 and obliges Ukraine to implement a diverse number of European legal acts in its national legal system, aiming to achieve the economic integration of Ukraine into the EU internal market. Nevertheless, it would be inaccurate to describe the process of integrating Ukrainian private law into the European Area of Justice as solely the implementation of the Community acquis. Rather, the Europeanization of Ukrainian private law is part of a value-based Europeanization of the entire Ukrainian society.Survey of contentsI. From Association to Harmonisation  Jürgen Basedow: EU Private Law in Ukraine. The Impact of the Association Agreement –  Eugenia Kurzynsky-Singer: The Implementation of the EU Acquis in Ukraine: Lessons from Legal Transplants –  Natalia Pankevich: EU-Ukraine Association: An Asymmetrical Partnership –  Danilo Flores: Allure and Rejection: Legal Frameworks Governing EU-Ukraine Relations before the Association Agreement II. Reform of Ukrainian Justice  Vitaliy Korolenko: The reform of the Ukrainian judicial system and the civil proceedings in the context of the Association Agreement –  Caroline von Gall: Beyond legal amendment. Ukrainian judiciary needs more than a change of laws III. Modernisation of Ukrainian Private Law  Roman Majdanyk: Development of Ukrainian private law in the context of its Europeanization –  Volodymyr Korol: Modernization of Ukrainian Cross-border Litigation and Conflict Law relating to contractual disputes in commercial matters on the way towards European Area of Justice –  Volodymyr Kochyn: Non-Entrepreneurial Legal Entities in Ukraine: the Application of the European Experience IV. EU and Eastern Europe  Natalia Pankevich: Eastern Neighbourhood of the EU: Alternatives for Integrative Projects –  Rainer Kulms: (Private) Law in Transition: The Acquis Communautaire as a Challenge for East European Law Makers –  Christa Jessel-Holst: Harmonization of Private Law as Exemplified in South East European Countries
