Refrigeration and air-conditioning
Fundamentals of Refrigeration and AC; The refrigeration cycle; Refrigerants; Compressors; Oil in refrigerant circuits; Condensers and cooling towers; Evaporators; Expansion valves; Controls and other circuit components; Component selection and balancing; Installation and construction, Distributed cooling, thermal storage, ; Packaged units; Food refrigeration and freezing; Cold storage; Food refrigeration -- product by product; Refrigerated transport handling and distribution; Refrigeration load estimation; Industrial uses of refrigeration; Air and water vapour mixtures; Air treatment fundamentals; Practical air treatment cycles; Air-conditioning load estimation; Air movement; Air-conditioning methods; Dehumidifiers and air drying; Heat pumps, heat recovery; Control Systems; Commissioning and maintenance; Efficiency, running cost and carbon footprint; Noise
Now in its fourth edition, this respected text delivers a comprehensive introduction to the principles and practice of refrigeration. Clear and straightforward, it is designed for students (NVQ/vocational level) and professional HVAC engineers, including those on short or CPD courses. Inexperienced readers are provided with a comprehensive introduction to the fundamentals of the technology. With its concise style yet broad sweep the book covers most of the applications professionals will encounter, enabling them to understand, specify, commission, use and maintain these systems. Many readers will appreciate the clarity with which the book covers the subject without swamping them with detailed technical or product specific information. New material in this edition includes the latest developments in refrigerants and lubricants, together with updated information on compressors, heat exchangers, liquid chillers, electronic expansion valves, controls and cold storage. Topics also covered include efficiency, environmental impact, split systems, retail refrigeration (supermarket systems and cold rooms), industrial systems, fans, air infiltration and noise. Author Information Guy Hundy studied Mechanical Engineering at Leeds University, UK. He started his career in the refrigeration industry with J & E Hall Ltd, Dartford. In 1985 he joined Copeland Europe and in 1998 he was appointed Director, Application Engineering, Copeland Europe. He has authored and co-authored papers and articles on compressors, applications and refrigerant changeover topics. Guy Hundy is a Chartered Engineer and works as a Technical Consultant. He is past - President of the Institute of Refrigeration. * Covers principles, methods and application of refrigeration, air conditioning and heat pumps in a concise volume, without the encumbrance of handbook information found in other volumes * Ideal for students, and professionals in other disciplines, not too theoretical but with sufficient depth to give an understanding of the issues, this book takes the reader from the fundamentals, through to system design, applications, contract specifications and maintenance * Full revision by Guy Hundy with new diagrams and illustrations
