Nonlinear optics
The Optical Society of America (OSA) and SPIE The International Society for Optical Engineering have awarded Robert Boyd with an honorable mention for the Joseph W. Goodman Book Writing Award for his work on Nonlinear Optics, 2nd edition. Nonlinear optics is essentially the study of the interaction of strong laser light with matter. It lies at the basis of the field of photonics, the use of light fields to control other light fields and to perform logical operations. Some of the topics of this book include the fundamentals and applications of optical systems based on the nonlinear interaction of light with matter. Topics to be treated include: mechanisms of optical nonlinearity, second-harmonic and sum- and difference-frequency generation, photonics and optical logic, optical self-action effects including self-focusing and optical soliton formation, optical phase conjugation, stimulated Brillouin and stimulated Raman scattering, and selection criteria of nonlinear optical materials. Covers all the latest topics and technology in this ever-evolving area of study that forms the backbone of the major applications of optical technology Offers first-rate instructive style making it ideal for self-study Emphasizes the fundamentals of non-linear optics rather than focus on particular applications that are constantly changing
Preface to second edition -- Preface to First edition;1. The Nonlinear Optical Susceptibility; 2. Wave-Equation Description of Nonlinear Optic Interactions;3. Quantum-Mechanical Theory of the Nonlinear Optical Susceptibility;4. The Intensity -Dependent Refractive Index;5. Molecular Origin of the Nonlinear Response;6. Nonlinear Optics in the Two-Level Approximation;7. Processes Resulting from the Intensity-Dependent Refractive Index;8. Spontaneous Light Scattering and Acousto-optics;9. Stimulated Brillouin and Stimulated Rayleigh Scattering;10. Stimulated Raman Scattering and Stimulated Rayleigh-Wing Scattering;11. The Electrooptic Photorefractive Effects;12. Optically Induced Damage and Multiphoton Absorption;13. Ultrafast and Intense-Field Nonlinear Optics;Appendix A; Appendix B; Appendix C; Appendix D
