Encyclopedia of marine mammals
New articles have been added to the second edition to cover new developments in marine mammal science, such as those related to climate change and the interface of ecology and conservation, as well as those established topics not fully explored in the first edition. The text has been further improved by reorganization and by the division and fusion of articles for which the material has either grown or was previously split among several diverse articles. Now in full color throughout. - Back cover
This thorough revision of the classic first edition brings this authoritative book right up-to-date. Articles describe every species in detail, based on the very latest taxonomy, and a host of biological, ecological and sociological aspects relating to marine mammals. The latest information on the biology, ecology, anatomy, behavior and interactions with man is provided by a cast of expert authors - all presented in such detail and clarity to support both marine mammal specialists and the serious naturalist. Fully referenced throughout and with a fresh selection of the best color photographs available, the long-awaited 2nd edition remains at the forefront as the go-to reference on marine mammals. * More than 20% NEW MATERIAL includes articles on Climate Change, Pacific White-sided Dolphins, Sociobiology, Habitat Use, Feeding Morphology and more * Over 260 articles on the individual species with topics ranging from anatomy and behavior, to conservation, exploitation and the impact of global climate change on marine mammals * New color illustrations show every species and document topical articles FROM THE FIRST EDITION "This book is so good ... a bargain, full of riches ... packed with fascinating up to date information. I recommend it unreservedly it to individuals, students, and researchers, as well as libraries"--Richard M. Laws, MARINE MAMMALS SCIENCE " ... establishes a solid and satisfying foundation for current study and future exploration"--Ronald J. Shusterman, SCIENCE
