The art of statistics : how to learn from data
"Statistics are everywhere, as integral to science as they are to business, and in the popular media hundreds of times a day. In this age of big data, a basic grasp of statistical literacy is more important than ever if we want to separate the fact from the fiction, the ostentatious embellishments from the raw evidence -- and even more so if we hope to participate in the future, rather than being simple bystanders. In The Art of Statistics, world-renowned statistician David Spiegelhalter shows readers how to derive knowledge from raw data by focusing on the concepts and connections behind the math. Drawing on real world examples to introduce complex issues, he shows us how statistics can help us determine the luckiest passenger on the Titanic, whether a notorious serial killer could have been caught earlier, and if screening for ovarian cancer is beneficial. The Art of Statistics not only shows us how mathematicians have used statistical science to solve these problems -- it teaches us how we too can think like statisticians. We learn how to clarify our questions, assumptions, and expectations when approaching a problem, and -- perhaps even more importantly -- we learn how to responsibly interpret the answers we receive. Combining the incomparable insight of an expert with the playful enthusiasm of an aficionado, The Art of Statistics is the definitive guide to stats that every modern person needs." --
Shows how to apply statistical reasoning to real-world problems. This isn't simply memorizing formulas or using the tools in a spreadsheet: he emphasizes the importance of clarifying questions, assumptions, and expectations, and--more importantly--knowing how to responsibly interpret the results the software generates
Introduction --Getting things done in proportion : categorical data and percentages --Summarizing and communicating numbers, lots of numbers --Why are we looking at data anyway? : populations and measurement --What causes what? --Modelling relationships using regression --Algorithms, analytics and prediction --How sure can we be about what is going on? : estimates and intervals --Probability : the language of uncertainty and variability --Putting probability and statistics together --Answering questions and claiming discoveries --Learning from experience the Bayesian way --How things go wrong --How we can do statistics better --In conclusion.
