Handbook of advanced methods and processes in oxidation catalysis : from laboratory to industry
Oxidation of CO and hydrocarbons in exhaust gas treatments / Jacques Barbier Jr and Daniel Duprez -- Soot oxidation in particulate filter regeneration / Junko Uchisawa, Akira Obuchi and Tetsuya Nanba -- The catalytic oxidation of hydrocarbon volatile organic compounds / Tomas Garcia, Benjamin Solsona and Stuart H. Taylor --  Catalytic oxidation of volatile organic compounds : chlorinated hydrocarbons / Juan R. Gonzâlez-Velasco, Asier Aranzabal, Beänat Pereda-Ayo, M. Pilar Gonzâlez-Marcos, and Josâe A. Gonzâlez-Marcos -- Zeolites as alternative catalysts for the oxidation of persistent organic pollutants / Stâephane Marie-Rose, Mihaela Taralunga, Xavier Chaucherie, Franðcois Nicol, Emmanuel Fiani, Thomas Belin, Patrick Magnoux and Jâerãome Mijoin -- Plasma catalysis for volatile organic compunds abatement / J. Christopher Whitehead -- Catalytic abatement of volatile organic compunds : some industrial applications / Pascaline Tran, James M. Chen and Robert J. Farrauto -- Hydrocarbon processing : catalytic combustion and partial oxidation to syngas / Unni Olsbye -- Oxygen activation for fuel cell and electrochemical process applications / Christophe Coutanceau and Stáeve Baranton -- Advanced oxidation processes in water treatment / Gabriele Centi and Siglinda Perathoner -- Selective oxidation at SABIC : innovative catalysts and technologies / Edouard Mamedov and Khalid Karim -- Development of selective oxidation catalysts at Clariant / Gerhard Mestl -- The industrial oxidation of KA oil to adipic acid / Stefano Alini and Pierpaolo Babini -- Selective oxidation reactions in polynt : an overview of processes and catalysts for maleic anhydride / Mario Novelli, Maurizio Leonardi and Carlotta Cortelli -- Selective oxidations at Eni / Roberto Buzzoni, Marco Ricci, Stefano Rossini and Carlo Perego -- Selective oxidation in DSM : innovative catalysts and technologies / Paul L. Alsters, Jean-Marie Aubry, Werner Bonrath, Corinne Daguenet, Michael Hans, Walther Jary, Ulla Letinois, Vâeronique Nardello-Rataj, Thomas Netscher, Rudy Parton, Jan Schèutz, Jaap Van Soolingen, Johan Tinge and Bettina Wèustenberg -- In situ and operando raman spectroscopy of oxidation catalysts / Israel E. Wachs and Miguel Baänares -- Infrared spectroscopy in oxidation catalysis / Guido Busca -- In situ non-vibrational characterization techniques to analyse oxidation catalysts and mechanisms / Angelika Brèuckner, Evgenii Kondratenko, Vita Kondratenko, Jèorg Radnik and Matthias Schneider -- Vanadium-phosphorus oxide catalyst for n-butane selective oxidation : from catalyst synthesis to the industrial process / Elisabeth Bordes-Richards, Ali Shekari and Gregory S. Patience -- Polyoxometalates catalysts for sustainable oxidations and energy applications / Mauro Carraro, Giulia Fiorani, Andrea Sartorel and Marcella Bonchio -- Supported metal nanoparticles in liquid-phase oxidation reactions / Nikolaos Dimitratos, Jose A. Lopez-Sanchez and Graham J. Hutchings -- Sustainability trends in homogeneous catalytic oxidations / Alessandro Scarso and Giorgio Strukul -- Light alkanes oxidation : targets reached and current challenges / Francisco Ivars and Josâe M. Lâopez Nieto -- Opportunities for oxidation reactions under supercritical conditions / Udo Armbruster and Andreas Martin -- Unconventional oxidants for gas-phase oxidations / Patricio Ruiz, Alejandro Karelovic and Vicente Cortâes Corberâan -- Membrane reactors as tools for improved catalytic oxidation process / Miguel Menâendez -- Structured catalytic reactors for selective oxidations / Gianpiero Groppi, Alessandra Beretta and Enrico Tronconi
