Turn it and turn it again : studies in the teaching and learning of classical Jewish texts
The study of classical Jewish texts is flourishing in day schools and adult education, synagogues and summer camps, universities and yeshivot. But serious inquiry into the practices and purposes of such study is far rarer. In this book, a diverse collection of empirical and conceptual studies illuminates particular aspects of the teaching of Bible and rabbinic literature to, and the learning of, children and adults. In addition to providing specific insights into the pedagogy of Jewish texts, these studies serve as models of what the disciplined study of pedagogy can look like. The book will be of interest to teachers of Jewish texts in all contexts, and will be particularly valuable for the professional development of Jewish educators
Frontmatter -- Contents -- Acknowledgements -- Foreword / Feiman-Nemser, Sharon -- 1. Cultivating Curiosity about the Teaching of Classical Jewish Texts / Levisohn, Jon A. / Fendrick, Susan P. -- PART 1: Focus on Subject Matter -- 2. A Map of Orientations to the Teaching of Bible / Holtz, Barry W. -- 3. What Are the Orientations to the Teaching of Rabbinic Literature? / Levisohn, Jon A. -- 4. Teaching Talmudic Hermeneutics Using a Semiotic Model of Law / Reifman, Daniel -- 5. Neusner, Brisk, and the Stam: Significant Methodologies for Meaningful Talmud Teaching and Study / Chernick, Michael -- PART 2: Focus on Teaching and Teachers -- 6. The Pedagogy of Slowing Down: Teaching Talmud in a Summer Kollel / Kanarek, Jane -- 7. Serendipity and Pedagogy: Presenting the Weekly Parashah through Rabbinic Eyes / Perkins, Carl M. -- 8. Introducing the Bible: The Comparative Orientation in Practice / Levisohn, Jon A. -- PART 3: Focus on Learning and Learners -- 9. Teaching Ancient Jewish History: An Experiment in Engaged Learning / Satlow, Michael L. -- 10. "A Judaism That Does Not Hide": Curricular Warrants for the Teaching of the Documentary Hypothesis in Community Jewish High Schools / Tanchel, Susan E. -- 11. Developing Student Awareness of the Talmud as an Edited Document: A Pedagogy for the Pluralistic Jewish Day School / Spitzer, Jeffrey -- 12. A Theory of Havruta Learning / Kent, Orit -- PART 4: Focus on Context -- 13. "Torah Talk": Teaching Parashat Ha-shavua to Young Children / Horowitz, Shira -- 14. Using the Contextual Orientation to Facilitate the Study of Bible with Generation X / Cousens, Beth / Fendrick, Susan P. / Morrison, Jeremy S. -- 15. Academic Study of the Talmud as a Spiritual Endeavor in Rabbinic Training: Delights and Dangers / Steinberg, Jonah Chanan -- 16. Teaching Rabbinics as an Ethical Endeavor and Teaching Ethics as a Rabbinic Endeavor / Lev, Sarra -- List of Contributors -- Index of Biblical and Rabbinic Sources -- General Index
