Soil Health Restoration and Management
Meeting the food requirements of an ever-increasing population is a pressing challenge for every country around the globe. Soil degradation has a negative impact on food security by reducing the cultivated land areas, while at the same time the world population is predicted to increase to 9.2 billion in 2050. Soil degradation adversely affects soil function and productivity and degraded soils now amount to 6 billion ha worldwide. The major factors are salinization, erosion, depletion of nutrients due to exhaustive agricultural practices and contamination with toxic metal ions and agrochemicals, which reduces the activity of soil microbe. In addition, poor soil management also decreases fertility. As such, measures are required to restore the soil health and productivity: organic matter, beneficial microorganisms and nutrient dynamics can all improve the physical, chemical and biological properties of soil. Understanding the role of soil health restoration and management in sustainability and nutritional security calls for a holistic approach to assess soil functions and examine the contributions of a particular management system within a defined timescale. Further, best management practices in cropping systems are important in ensuring sustainability and food and nutritional security without compromising the soil quality and productivity po­tential. Rational soil management practices must allow environmentally and economically sustain­able yields and restoration of soil health
Chapter 1. Carbon Footprints in Eroded Soils and its Impact on Soil Health -- Chapter 2. Restoration of Degraded Soil for Sustainable Agriculture -- Chapter 3. An Effective Organic Waste recycling through Vermicompost Technology for soil Restoration -- Chapter 4. Sustainable Management and Restoration of the Fertility of Damaged and Contaminated Lands and Soils -- Chapter 5. Relevance of Microbial Diversity in Implicating Soil Restoration and Health Management -- Chapter 6. Conservation Agriculture Practices to Improve the Soil-water Management and Soil Carbon Storage in Mediterranean Rainfed Agro-ecosystems -- Chapter 7. Terraced Subtropical Farming: Sustainable Strategies for Soil Conservation -- Chapter 8. Polyculture Management – a Crucial System for Sustainable Agriculture Development -- Chapter 9. Free Lipid Biomarkersin Anthropogenic Soils -- Chapter 10. Green Technologies for Restoration of Damaged Ecosystem
