Radical approaches to political science : roads less traveled
"In this comprehensive volume, Rainer Eisfeld draws judicious lessons from his long-time involvement in international debated about what political science does - and what it should be able to achieve. Highlighting problems too rarely confronted by "mainstream" political scientists, the book's innovative chapters explore salient contemporary issues in a manner apt to stir up conventional thinking: the non-relevance of political science research for improving the human condition; today's deficient political pluralism; the susceptibility of political science to authoritarian temptations; the fatal extent of American 'Gun-mindedness'; the discipline's development in post-communist countries, overshadowed by the emergence of hybrid regimes. Tying together a dozen original contributions with a determined emphasis on participatory politics, Eisfeld demonstrates how 'radical' approaches promote the sort of political science that does not shy away from incorporating historical dynamics, societal conflicts, and embedded power relations."--Page 4 of cover
Political science taking sides--Why, How?. How political science might regain relevance and obtain an audience: A manifesto for the 21st century ; Towards creating a discipline with a "regional stamp": Central-east European political science and Ethno-cultural diversity ; Pluralism and democratic governance: a century of changing research frameworks ; Pluralism as a critical political theory.Political science and state power. Political science in Central-East Europe and the impact of politics: factors of diversity, forces of convergence (with Leslie A. Pal) ; German political science at the crossroads: the ambivalent response to the 1933 Nazi seizure of power. -- Political science and ideology (1) Germany's "Peculiar course": coming to grips with patterns of anti-democratic thinking. From Hegelianism to Neo-Pluralism: the uneasy relationship between private and public interests in Germany ; 'Mitteleuropa' in historical and contemporary perspective. -- Political science and ideology (2) another peculiar course: American 'gun-mindedness'--Some origins and consequences. Myths and realities of frontier violence: a look at the Gunfighter Saga ; Projecting landscapes of the human mind onto another world: changing faces of an imaginary Mars. -- Political science and polity transfer international pressures and domestic politics during Portugal's transition to democracy. Portugal and Western Europe: shifting involvements ; External influences on the Portuguese Revolution: the role of Western Europe.
