Nanoscale spectroscopy with applications
"This book introduces the key concepts of nanoscale spectroscopy methods used in nanotechnologies in a manner that is easily digestible for a beginner in the field. It discusses future applications of nanotechnologies in technical industries. It also covers new developments and interdisciplinary research in engineering, science, and medicine. An overview of nanoscale spectroscopy for nanotechnologies, the book describes the technologies with an emphasis on how they work and on their key benefits. It also serves as a reference for veterans in the field"--
"Preface Nanotechnology and nanoscience have now emerged as the most important growth areas in the new millennium, and spectroscopy has become the most common and powerful method that uses radiation to obtain information on the structure and properties of matter. Indeed, the physical and chemical properties of materials and their interactions with electromagnetic energy at all wavelengths can be uniquely fingerprinting the spectral signature at nanostructure materials using nanoscale spectroscopy (or nanospectroscopy). Therefore, the challenges posed by nanoscale spectroscopy continue to attract researchers from all around the world and have led to many new discoveries concerning the interaction between light and matter at dimensions much smaller than the wavelength of electromagnetic radiation. Nanoscale spectroscopy and its applications shed light on interdisciplinary research, including engineering, physics, chemistry, biology, medicine, and aerospace. The study of the interaction between light and matter at the nanometer scale is facilitated by the rapid progress in nanotechnology and nanoscience. Nanoscale spectroscopy is of great benefit to industry as it requires little labor and low cost. This book reports on recent progress and provides an overview of nanoscale spectroscopy and its applications. This book consists of 13 chapters and 3 appendices. Chapter 1 presents tipenhanced spectroscopy at the nanoscale along with its practical issues and solutions. The authors focus on tip-enhanced Raman scattering (TERS) for imaging and spectroscopy at the nanoscale (lateral dimension: XY)-system configuration, nanoanalysis of carbon nanomaterials, nanoanalysis of biomaterials, nanoanalysis of semiconductors, precise distance"--
