Structure Data of Free Polyatomic Molecules
Preface -- Introduction -- Methods of molecular structure determination -- Structure data of inorganic molecules - Part I -- Structure data of inorganic molecules - Part II -- Structure data of molecules containing one carbon atom - Part I -- Structure data of molecules containing one carbon atom. Part II. - Structure data of molecules containing two carbon atoms - Part I -- Structure data of molecules containing two carbon atoms - Part II -- Structure data of molecules containing three carbon atoms - Part I -- Structure data of molecules containing three carbon atoms - Part II -- Structure data of molecules containing four carbon atoms - Part I -- Structure data of molecules containing four carbon atoms - Part II -- Structure data of molecules containing five carbon atoms - Part I -- Structure data of molecules containing five carbon atoms - Part II -- Structure data of molecules containing six carbon atoms - Part I -- Structure data of molecules containing six carbon atoms - Part II -- Structure data of molecules containing seven carbon atoms -- Structure data of molecules containing eight carbon atoms -- Structure data of molecules containing nine carbon atoms -- Structure data of molecules containing ten to twenty carbon atoms -- Structure data of molecules containing twenty-one to thirty carbon atoms -- Structure data of molecules containing thirty-one to forty carbon atoms -- Structure data of molecules containing forty-one to fifty carbon atoms -- Structure data of molecules containing fifty one to sixty carbon atoms -- Structure data of molecules containing sixty one and more carbon atoms.
This handbook presents structural data on free polyatomic molecules. Since the structure of molecules defines the chemical, physical and biological properties of matter, this information is crucial for understanding, explaining and predicting chemical reactions and biochemical processes, developing new drugs and materials as well as studying interstellar media. Covering the structural data published between 2009 and 2017, this book supplements the previous Landolt–Börnstein volumes “Structure Data of Free Polyatomic Molecules” (eds. K. Kuchitsu, N. Vogt, M. Tanimoto), which included data from the literature published up to 2008. It systematizes and describes peculiarities of molecular structures for about 1000 compounds studied mainly by gas-phase electron diffraction and rotational spectroscopy. All structures are given in three-dimensional representations.
