Pivotal Certified Professional Spring Developer Exam : A Study Guide
1. Book Overview -- 2. Spring Bean Lifecycle and Configuration -- 3. Testing Spring Applications -- 4. Aspect Oriented Programming (AOP) in Spring and AspectJ -- 5. Transactions, Persistence and Database Access -- 6. Web programming with Spring MVC and Annotations -- 7. Application Testing -- 8. Advanced topics: Spring Remoting, Beans with JMX, JMS Messaging -- 9. Mock exams
Pass the Pivotal Certified Professional exam using source code examples, study summaries, and mock exams. In this book, you'll find a descriptive overview of certification-related Spring modules and a single example application demonstrating the use of all required Spring modules. Also, it is suitable as an introductory primer for Spring newcomers. Furthermore, in Pivotal Certified Professional Spring Developer Exam: A Study Guide each chapter contains a brief study summary and question set, and the book’s free downloadable source code package includes one mock exam (50 questions - like a real exam). After using this study guide, you will be ready to take and pass the Pivotal Certified Professional exam. When you become Pivotal Certified, you will have one of the most valuable credentials in Java. The demand for Spring skills is skyrocketing. Pivotal certification helps you advance your skills and your career, and get the maximum benefit from Spring. Passing the exam demonstrates your understanding of Spring and validates your familiarity with: container-basics, aspect oriented programming (AOP), data access and transactions, Spring Security, Spring Boot, microservices and the Spring model-view-controller (MVC). Good luck! What You'll Learn Understand the core principles of the popular Spring Framework Use dependency injection Work with aspects in Spring and do AOP (aspect oriented programming) Control transactional behavior and work with SQL and NoSQL (MongoDB) databases Create and secure web applications based on Spring MVC Get to know the format of exam and type of questions in it Create Spring microservices applications Who This Book Is For Spring developers who have taken the Pivotal Core Spring class are eligible to take the Pivotal Certified Professional exam
