Beginning Java 9 Fundamentals : Arrays, Objects, Modules, JShell, and Regular Expressions
p.p1 { margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; line-height: 16.0px; font: 14.0px Helvetica; color: rgb(0,0,0); } span.s1 { } span.s2 { color: rgb(0,0,0); } 1. Programming Concepts -- 2. Setting Up the Environment -- 3. Writing Java Programs -- 4. Data Types -- 5. Operators -- 6. Statements -- 7. Classes and Objects -- 8. Methods -- 9. Constructors -- 10. Modules -- 11. Object and Objects Classes -- 12. Wrapper Classes -- 13. Execution Handling -- 14. Assertions -- 15. Strings -- 16. Dates and Times -- 17. Formatting Data -- 18. Regular Expressions -- 19. Arrays -- 20. Inheritance -- 21. Interfaces -- 22. Enum Types -- 23. Java Shell -- Appendix A: Character Encodings -- Appendix B: Documentation Comments
Learn the basics of Java 9, including basic programming concepts and the object-oriented fundamentals necessary at all levels of Java development. Author Kishori Sharan walks you through writing your first Java program step-by-step. Armed with that practical experience, you'll be ready to learn the core of the Java language.Beginning Java 9 Fundamentals provides over 90 diagrams and 240 complete programs to help you learn the topics faster. The book continues with a series of foundation topics, including using data types, working with operators, and writing statements in Java. These basics lead onto the heart of the Java language: object-oriented programming. By learning topics such as classes, objects, interfaces, and inheritance you'll have a good understanding of Java's object-oriented model. The final collection of topics takes what you've learned and turns you into a real Java programmer. You'll see how to take the power of object-oriented programming and write programs that can handle errors and exceptions, process strings and dates, format data, and work with arrays to manipulate data. This book is a companion to two other books also by Sharan focusing on APIs and advanced Java topics. You will: Write your first Java programs with an emphasis on learning object-oriented programming in Java Work with data types, operators, statements, classes and objects Handle exceptions, assertions, strings and dates, and object formatting Use regular expressions  Work with arrays, interfaces, enums, and inheritance Deploy Java applications on memory-constrained devices using compact profiles Take advantage of the new JShell REPL tool
