Banking on change : the development and future of financial services : a collection of essays commissioned by the London Institute of Banking & Finance
"This book is being published to mark the 140th anniversary of The London Institute of Banking & Finance. Our aim was to produce a publication that is of lasting value to both students and professionals - in line with the founding principles of the 'Institute of Bankers in England' in 1879. Financial services is going through a period of profound change, so we approached experts from across the industry to tackle some of the most exciting and contentious topics. What, for example, will the future of retail banking look like as fintech competition hots up? Will credit provision change? How should the financial services professionals of the future be selected and trained? We also have some more personal pieces, including a look-back at the changes seen during a long career in banking, and a call for more appreciation of the value that financial services bring to society. In the Introduction, Navigating The Centuries, Ouida Taaffe examines how the work of The London Institute of Banking & Finance has not only informed the development of financial services over the past 140 years, but has also helped to shape the wider culture and economy."
Foreword / by Steven Haberman -- Introduction: Navigating the centuries / Ouida Taaffe -- Banking, finance and society : what keeps the motor running? / Peter Hahn -- Standing the test of time / Paul Lynam -- What happens when nobody is watching : regulation, bank risk culture and achieving environmental sustainability / Kern Alexander and Paul Fisher -- It takes an ecosystem : the future of trade financing / Alexander Malaket -- A new playbook for banks / William A. Allen -- Sustainable investment : the golden moment / Elizabeth Corley -- Living "off income" / Richard Tomlinson -- Power to the customer : disrupting banking / Anne Boden -- RIP Libor / Richard Northedge -- Boosting UK bank competition : still many cliffs to climb / Martin Stewart -- Changing the face of banking and finance / Shelley Doorey-Williams -- Getting the right stuff / Mike Thompson -- Financial education : how to make it count / Andy Davis -- Using AI to make risk transparent : the future of credit / Lowell Bryan -- Going over the top / Renier Lemmens -- Banking technology : can the centre hold? / Anthony Gandy -- The future of payments / Ruth Wandhöfer -- Life lessons / Alex Fraser.
