Compositionality and Concepts in Linguistics and Psychology
Introduction by James A. Hampton and Yoad Winter -- Cognitively Plausible Theories of Concept Composition by Lawrence W. Barsalou -- Compositionality and Concepts - A Perspective from Formal Semantics and Philosophy of Language by Francis Jeffry Pelletier -- Compositionality and Concepts by James A. Hampton -- Typicality Knowledge and the Interpretation of Adjectives by Choonkyu Lee -- Concept Typicality and the Interpretation of Plural Predicate Conjunction by Eva B. Poortman -- Critical typicality: Truth Judgements and Compositionality with Plurals and other Gradable Concepts by Yoad Winter -- Complement Coercion as the Processing of Aspectual Verbs: Evidence from Self-Paced Reading and fMRI by Yao-Ying Lai, Cheryl Lacadie, Todd Constable, Ashwini Deo, and Maria Mercedes Piñango -- Conceptual Combination, Property Inclusion, and the Aristotelian-Thomistic View of Concepts by Christina L. Gagné, Thomas L. Spalding, and Matthew Kostelecky -- Conceptual vs. Referential Affordance in Concept Composition by Louise McNally and Gemma Boleda -- How does the left Anterior Temporal Lobe Contribute to Conceptual Combination? Interdisciplinary Perspectives by Masha Westerlund and Liina Pylkkänen -- Dimension Accessibility as a Predictor of Morphological Gradability by Galit W. Sassoon -- Subject Index -- Name Index
By highlighting relations between experimental and theoretical work, this volume explores new ways of addressing one of the central challenges in the study of language and cognition. The articles bring together work by leading scholars and younger researchers in psychology, linguistics and philosophy. An introductory chapter lays out the background on concept composition, a problem that is stimulating much new research in cognitive science. Researchers in this interdisciplinary domain aim to explain how meanings of complex expressions are derived from simple lexical concepts and to show how these meanings connect to concept representations. Traditionally, much of the work on concept composition has been carried out within separate disciplines, where cognitive psychologists have concentrated on concept representations, and linguists and philosophers have focused on the meaning and use of logical operators. This volume demonstrates an important change in this situation, where convergence points between these three disciplines in cognitive science are emerging and are leading to new findings and theoretical insights.   This book is open access under a CC BY license
