Curves and surfaces for CAGD : a practical guide
Preface -- Chapter 1 P. B̌ezier: How a Simple System Was Born -- Chapter 2 Introductory Material -- Chapter 3 Linear Interpolation -- Chapter 4 The de Casteljau Algorithm -- Chapter 5 The Bernstein Form of a B̌ezier Curve -- Chapter 6 B̌ezier Curve Topics -- Chapter 7 Polynomial Curve Constructions -- Chapter 8 B-Spline Curves -- Chapter 9 Constructing Spline Curves -- Chapter 10 W. Boehm: Differential Geometry I -- Chapter 11 Geometric Continuity -- Chapter 12 ConicSections -- Chapter 13 Rational B̌ezier and B-Spline Curves -- Chapter 14 Tensor Product Patches -- Chapter 15 Constructing Polynomial Patches -- Chapter 16 Composite Surfaces -- Chapter 17 B̌ezier Triangles -- Chapter 18 Practical Aspects of B̌ezier Triangles -- Chapter 19 W. Boehm: Differential Geometry II -- Chapter 20 GeometricContinuityforSurfaces -- Chapter 21 Surfaces with Arbitrary Topology -- Chapter 22 Coons Patches -- Chapter 23 Shape -- Chapter 24 Evaluation of Some Methods -- Appendix A Quick Reference of Curve and Surface Terms -- Appendix B List of Programs -- Appendix C Notation -- References -- Index
This fifth edition has been fully updated to cover the many advances made in CAGD and curve and surface theory since 1997, when the fourth edition appeared. Material has been restructured into theory and applications chapters. The theory material has been streamlined using the blossoming approach; the applications material includes least squares techniques in addition to the traditional interpolation methods. In all other respects, it is, thankfully, the same. This means you get the informal, friendly style and unique approach that has made Curves and Surfaces for CAGD: A Practical Guide a true classic. The book's unified treatment of all significant methods of curve and surface design is heavily focused on the movement from theory to application. The author provides complete C implementations of many of the theories he discusses, ranging from the traditional to the leading-edge. You'll gain a deep, practical understanding of their advantages, disadvantages, and interrelationships, and in the process you'll see why this book has emerged as a proven resource for thousands of other professionals and academics. * Provides authoritative and accessible information for those working with or developing computer-aided geometric design applications. * Covers all significant CAGD curve and surface design techniques-from the traditional to the experimental. * Includes a new chapter on recursive subdivision and triangular meshes. * Presents topical programming exercises useful to professionals and students alike. * Offers complete C implementations of many of the book's examples via a companion Web site
