Practical Google Analytics and Google Tag Manager for Developers
Whether you’re a marketer with development skills or a full-on web developer/analyst, Practical Google Analytics and Google Tag Manager for Developers shows you how to implement Google Analytics using Google Tag Manager to jumpstart your web analytics measurement. Whether you're starting from scratch on a new website or working to re-engineer or enhance a Google Analytics account you have inherited, this book provides the tools. There’s a reason that so many organizations use Google Analytics. Effective collection of web analytics data through Google Analytics can reduce customer acquisition costs, turn visitors into customers, provide priceless feedback on new product initiatives, and offer insights that will grow a customer or client base. So where does Google Tag Manager fit in? With a growing list of features and rapid adoption across industries, Google Tag Manager allows for unprecedented collaboration between marketing and technical teams, lightning fast updates to your site, and standardization of the most common tags for on-site tracking and marketing efforts. As Practical Google Analytics and Google Tag Manager for Developers shows, to achieve the rich data you're really after to better serve your users' needs, you'll need the tools Google Tag Manager provides for a best-in-class implementation of Google Analytics measurement on your site. Written by data evangelist and Google Analytics expert Jonathan Weber and the team at LunaMetrics, this book offers foundational knowledge, a collection of practical Google Tag Manager recipes, well-tested best practices, and troubleshooting tips to get your implementation in tip-top condition. It covers topics including: • Google Analytics implementation via Google Tag Manager • How to customize Google Analytics for your unique situation • Using Google Tag Manager to track and analyze interactions across multiple devices and touch points • How to extract data from Google Analytics and use Google BigQuery to analyze Big Data questions
Whether you?re a marketer with development skills or a full-on web developer/analyst, Practical Google Analytics and Google Tag Manager for Developers shows you how to implement Google Analytics using Google Tag Manager to jumpstart your web analytics measurement. Whether you're starting from scratch on a new website or working to re-engineer or enhance a Google Analytics account you have inherited, this book provides the tools. There?s a reason that so many organizations use Google Analytics. Effective collection of web analytics data through Google Analytics can reduce customer acquisition costs, turn visitors into customers, provide priceless feedback on new product initiatives, and offer insights that will grow a customer or client base. So where does Google Tag Manager fit in? With a growing list of features and rapid adoption across industries, Google Tag Manager allows for unprecedented collaboration between marketing and technical teams, lightning fast updates to your site, and standardization of the most common tags for on-site tracking and marketing efforts. As Practical Google Analytics and Google Tag Manager for Developers shows, to achieve the rich data you're really after to better serve your users' needs, you'll need the tools Google Tag Manager provides for a best-in-class implementation of Google Analytics measurement on your site. Written by data evangelist and Google Analytics expert Jonathan Weber and the team at LunaMetrics, this book offers foundational knowledge, a collection of practical Google Tag Manager recipes, well-tested best practices, and troubleshooting tips to get your implementation in tip-top condition. It covers topics including:? Google Analytics implementation via Google Tag Manager? How to customize Google Analytics for your unique situation? Using Google Tag Manager to track and analyze interactions across multiple devices and touch points? How to extract data from Google Analytics and use Google BigQuery to analyze Big Data questions
