Greene's protective groups in organic synthesis
This new edition includes updates on protective group chemistry since 2005. Each chapter is updated to reflect the new material that has been published since the last edition, totalling over 2800 references. This continues the tradition of Greene's being comprehensive in the overall scope of coverage, providing the most relevant and useful examples to illustrate each methodology. It is a useful guide to the organic chemist, and the content is organized on the basis of the functional group to be protected (i.e., ethers, amides, phenols, phosphates, etc). Within each section, the organization goes from the simple protective groups to the most complicated (in terms of structure). --
Greene's Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis; Contents; Preface to the Fifth Edition; Preface to the Fourth Edition; Preface to the Third Edition; Preface to the Second Edition; Preface to the First Edition; Abbreviations; 1. The Role of Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis; Properties of a Protective Group; Historical Development; Development of New Protective Groups; Selection of a Protective Group from This Book; Synthesis of Complex Substances: Two Examples (As used in the Synthesis of Himastatin and Palytoxin) of the Selection, Introduction, and Removal of Protective Groups.
2,6-Dialkylphenyl EstersSubstituted Benzyl Esters; Silyl Esters; Activated Esters; Miscellaneous Derivatives; Stannyl Esters; Amides and Hydrazides; Amides; Hydrazides; Protection of Sulfonic Acids; Protection of Boronic Acids; 6. Protection for the Thiol Group; Thioethers; S-Diphenylmethyl, Substituted S-Diphenylmethyl, and S-Triphenylmethyl Thioethers; Substituted S-Methyl Derivatives: Monothio, Dithio, and Aminothio Acetals; Substituted S-Ethyl Derivatives; Silyl Thioethers; Thioesters; Thiocarbonate Derivatives; Thiocarbamate Derivatives; Miscellaneous Derivatives.
Silyl DerivativesCyclic Carbonates; Cyclic Boronates; 3. Protection for Phenols and Catechols; Protection for Phenols; Ethers; Silyl Ethers; Esters; Carbonates; Carbamates; Phosphinates; Sulfonates; Protection for Catechols (1,2-Dihydroxybenzenes); Cyclic Acetals and Ketals; Cyclic Esters; Protection for 2-Hydroxybenzenethiols; 4. Protection for the Carbonyl Group; Acetals and Ketals; Acyclic Acetals and Ketals; Cyclic Acetals and Ketals; Chiral Acetals and Ketals; Dithio Acetals and Ketals; Cyclic Dithio Acetals and Ketals; Monothio Acetals and Ketals; Diseleno Acetals and Ketals.
Synthesis of HimastatinSynthesis of Palytoxin Carboxylic Acid; 2. Protection for the Hydroxyl Group, Including 1,2- and 1,3-Diols; Ethers; Substituted Methyl Ethers; Substituted Ethyl Ethers; Methoxy-Substituted Benzyl Ethers; Silyl Ethers; Esters; Bisfluorous Chain-Type Propanoate (Bfp-OR) Ester; Proximity-Assisted Deprotection for Ester Cleavage; Miscellaneous Esters; Sulfonates, Sulfenates, and Sulfinates as Protective Groups for Alcohols; Carbonates; Carbamates; Protection for 1,2- and 1,3-Diols; Monoprotection of Diols; Cyclic Acetals and Ketals; Chiral Ketones; Cyclic Orthoesters.
