Eurasian integration - the view from within
"As Eurasia and the adjacent territories become more important to the world, there is increasing interest from international powers, accompanied by attempts to give institutional form to traditional economic and security links within the region. This book includes a range of substantive work from scholars based in the region, offering contrasting perspectives on the process of Eurasian integration and its place in the world. Chapters consider economic, political, social and security developments, with notable studies of the major countries involved in the development of the Eurasian Economic Union. The work also examines the connections between the region and China, greater Asia and the European Union. It outlines the varying dynamics, with populations growing in Central Asia while at best stagnant elsewhere. The book discusses the increasing strategic significance of the region and explores how the new post-Soviet states are growing in national cohesion and political self-confidence. Above all, the book examines the concept of 'Eurasia', outlining the debates about the concept and how various aspects of the legacy of 'Eurasianism' contribute to contemporary plans for integration. The book argues that although regional integration is very much a popular idea in our age, with the potential for economic benefits and increased international influence, in practice contemporary projects for Eurasian integration have been highly ambiguous and contested. Nevertheless, significant steps have been taken towards the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union. The book analyses developments to date, noting the achievements as well as the challenges. "--
"As Central Asia and the adjacent territory become more important to the world, there is increasing interest in the region from international powers. This book considers economic, political, social and security developments, and examines the region's connections with Russia, China, Europe and the United States. Above all the book examines the concept of "Eurasia" and discusses how far the dynamics of the region are likely to lead to regional integration. The book argues that, although regional integration ought to be an appealing idea, with potential for economic benefits and increased international influence, in practice recent attempts at re-integration have not been very successful"--
