Convenience triangle in white-collar crime : case studies of fraud examinations
Contents: Introduction -- 1. Stumbling into action research -- 2. Whistleblowers as information sources -- 3. Retaliation against whistleblowers -- 4. Crime in religious organizations -- 5. Convenience triangle in crime -- 6. When fraud examiners fail -- 7. Special sensitivity and neutralization -- 8. Autobiographies by offenders -- 9. Compensation of victims -- 10. Case 1: Office of the sheriff -- 11. Case 2: Pelham property fraud -- 12. Case 3: Nigeria petroleum fraud -- 13: Case 4: Toshiba accounting misconduct -- 14: Case 5 Wells Fargo sales misconduct -- 15: Case 6: Fuji Xerox customer fraud -- 16. Case 7: Olympus accounting misconduct -- 17. Case 8: BP claims attorney misconduct -- 18: Public procurement case -- 19: Executive deviance -- 20. Conclusion -- References -- Index.
Studies have shown that the number of individuals being incarcerated for white-collar crime is on the rise, going hand-in-hand with an increase in support for punishment and imprisonment for white-collar offenders among the public. This book aims to discuss the role of the 'convenience triangle' in white-collar crime, how it affects the perpetration of these crimes, the impact of this on detection and prevention and the effects of the punitive measures taken against white-collar criminals. The 'convenience triangle' is the dynamic relationship between motive, opportunity, and willingness to commit a crime, which culminates in the illegal acts that constitute white-collar crime. The relationship between these factors is explored through case studies highlighting each of these six causal relationships. Alongside this, the role of whistleblowing in the detection of white-collar crime, and the issue of incarceration for white collar criminals are discussed. For students of business and management, this book will provide valuable insights into the motivation and practice of white-collar crime. Its insights and discussion will also prove valuable for practitioners, engaged in both management and crime prevention
