Choice modelling : the state of the art and the state of practice
This collection of papers, by leading researchers in the field, provides an excellent view of the current state of research and applications. Exciting new techniques are presented, and realistic solutions are offered to issues that arise in applied work. It is an admirably rich volume, offering valuable insights for all readers of choice modeling. Kenneth Train, University of California, Berkeley and NERA Economic Consulting, Inc., San Francisco, California, US. Im an enthusiastic fan of the ICMC, where researchers are friendly, genuinely interested in learning from and helping one another. There is much to learn because each discipline brings a different perspective to the field and to theoretical and applied problems in decision-making and choice behavior. The ICMC embodies the philosophy that most real choice problems are complex and require a cross-disciplinary approach. The papers in this volume represent an eclectic cross-section of the topics covered by key researchers in the field. I look forward to getting our PhD students and postdocs stuck into them. Jordan Louviere, University of Technology Sydney, Australia. Choice modelling has been one of the most active fields in economics over recent years. This valuable new book contains leading contributions from academics and practitioners from across the different areas of study where choice modelling is a key analytical technique, drawn from a recent international conference. Choice models explain the behaviour of individuals by quantifying their values, responses and perceptions of attributes describing the various options (alternatives) available to them. Policy makers and planners have long since recognised the potential of using choice models for guidance purposes, with applications in fields as diverse as transport analysis, healthcare, telecommunications, public service evaluation and energy. The unique mix of theoretical and applied chapters will appeal to academics, students, researchers and practitioners in various fields, as well as anyone with a general interest in the subject
1. Modeling single individuals : the journey from psych lab to the app store / Jordan J. Louviere -- 2. Forecasting behaviour : with applications to transport / Andrew Daly -- 3. Workshop report : recent advances on modeling multiple discrete-continuous choices / Abdul Pinjari, Chandra Bhat and David S. Bunch -- 4. Workshop report : working with repeated choice data / Andrew Daly, Stephane Hess and Christine Eckert -- 5. Workshop report : mental representations and discrete choice behaviour : state-of-the-art and avenues for future research / Benedict G.C. Dellaert ... [et al.] -- 6. Workshop report : good data is key to the development of good models so how is innovation in data collection keeping apace? / Rob Sheldon ... [et al.] -- 7. Applied welfare economics with discrete choice models : implications of theory for empirical specification / Richard Batley and J. Nicolás Ibáñez -- 8. A comprehensive model to capture the preference for mass rapid transit in Dhaka / Annesha Enam and Charisma F. Choudhury -- 9. On the perception of safety in low income neighbourhoods : using digital images in a stated choice experiment / Paula Iglesias, Margarita Greene and Juan de Dios Ortúzar -- 10. How urban environment affects travel behaviour : integrated choice and latent variable model for travel schedules / Lissy La Paix ... [et al.] -- 11. Selecting a date : a matter of regret and compromises / Caspar G. Chorus and John M. Rose -- 12. Trivariate probit models of pre-purchase/purchase shopping channel choice : clothing purchases in Northern California / Patricia L. Mokhtarian and Wei (Laura) Tang -- 13. Choice models of travel demand in practice : current trends, problems and welcome research directions / Peter Vovsha.
