The evolution of Korean industrial and employment relations
Contents: Introduction -- Part I. Preliminary steps to understanding employment and industrial relations in South Korea / Byoung-Hoon Lee -- 1. Viewing Korean employment and industrial relations / Young-Myon Lee and Bruce E. Kaufman -- 2. The historical development of employment and labor relations in Korea / Kwang-Pyo Roh and Chris Brewster -- Part II. Introduction to the main actors: employers, employees, collective representatives, and government / Thomas A. Kochan -- 3. The Korea Employers' Federation and the development of Korean industrial relations / In Jun, Peter Sheldon and Kang-Sung Lee -- 4. The faltering militancy of labor unions: recent developments in collective bargaining / Yongjin Nho and Hyung-Tag Kim -- 5. The evolution of HRM practices and labor unions / Dong-Bae Kim and Fang Lee Cooke -- 6. Korean public sector employment relations / Seung-Hyeob Lee and David Lewin -- 7. New trends in Korean labor interest representation / Myung Joon Park -- Part III. Challenges facing the labor market and employment relations / Russell Lansbury -- 8. Changes in the Korean labor market / Jai-Joon Hur -- 9. The proliferation of contingent workers / Haejin Kim and Paula B. Voos -- 10. Human resource development / Sang-Min Lee and Morley Gunderson -- 11. Women, employment and gender inequality in South Korea / Heiwon Kwon and Virginia L. Doellgast -- Part IV. New appraisal and future directions / Janice R. Bellace -- 12. Worker rights / Hyuk Kwon -- 13. Strike activity in Korea / Kyoung Won Park -- 14. Works councils in Korea: history, performance and assessment / Bruce E. Kaufman and Young-Myon Lee -- 15. Social dialogue at a crossroads / Hong-Geun Change -- Conclusion: Korean employment and industrial relations - a work in progress / Young-Ki Choi -- Index.
The Evolution of Korean Industrial and Employment Relations explores current employment and workplace relations practice in South Korea, tracing their origins to key historical events and inevitable cultural adaptation in one of Asia's 'miraculous' democracies. This volume challenges common but dated misconceptions of Korean industrial relations fixated on an economically successful but politically turbulent past. As Korea's employment relations continue to evolve, the accommodations made by companies and labor provide powerful insights for leaders in developing economies worldwide striving for prosperity, stability, and democratization. This book focuses on current realities both social and economic to uncover the potent challenges facing employers and workers in a slow-growth era of union decline. Lee and Kaufman provide a wide-ranging and global perspective authored by established and up-and-coming scholars both in and outside Korea in fields such as labor law, sociology, industrial relations, and labor economics. Up-to-date evaluation, data and analysis provide a modern and innovative perspective on employment and industrial relations practice. Scholars of global and specifically Asian industrial relations, human resource management and modern comparative labor relations will find this book of value. Policy makers and CEOs in emerging economics will benefit from the modern and innovative perspective on employment and industrial relations practice, including CEOs managing workplaces in South Korea
