Bioenergy
Bioethanol -- Production of ethanol from corn and sugarcane / Nancy N. Nichols, Dale A. Monceaux, Bruce S. Dien, and Rodney J. Bothast -- Lignocellulosic biomass conversion to ethanol by Saccharomyces spp. / Z. Lewis Liu, Badal C. Saha, and Patricia J. Slininger -- Engineering the Pichia stipitis genome for fermentation of hemicellulose hydrolysates / Thomas W. Jeffries -- Ethanol, biomass, and clostridia / Marco A. B치ez-V치squez and Arnold L. Demain -- Consolidated bioprocessing of cellulosic biomass to ethanol using thermophilic bacteria / Lee R. Lynd,Devin Currie, Nicky Ciazza, Chris Herring, and Nick Orem -- Cellulosome-enhanced conversion of biomass: on the road to bioethanol / Edward A. Bayer, Yuval Shoham, and Raphael Lamed -- Cellulosomes from mesophilic bacteria / Roy H. Doi -- Cohesin-dockerin interactions and folding / J. H. David Wu, Michael Newcomb, and Kazuo Sakka -- Contribution of domain interactions and calcium binding to the stability of carbohydate-active enzymes / Lars G. Ljungdahl, Irina A. Kataeva, and Vladimir N. Uversky -- The development of ethanologenic bacteria for fuel ethanol production / Gregory W. Luli, Laura Jarboe, and Lonnie O. Ingram -- Chrysosporium lucknowense cellulases and xylanases in cellulosic biofuels production / Marco A. B치ez-V치squez and Arkady P. Sinitsyn -- Production of ethanol from synthesis gas / Ralph S. Tanner -- Methane production -- Acetate-based methane production / James G. Ferry -- Energetic aspects of methanogenic feeding webs / Bernhard Schink -- Optimizing mixed-culture bioprocessing to convert wastes into bioenergy / Largus T. Angenent and Brian A. Wrenn -- Biomethane from biomass, biowaste, and biofuels / Ann C. Wilkie -- Methane from gas hydrates / Bahman Tohidi and Ross Anderson -- Methanol -- Methanol from biomass / Manfred Ringpfeil, Hans-Joachim Sander, Matthias Gerhardt, and Monika Wolf -- Prospects for methanol production / Bakul C. Dave -- Hydrogen production -- Towards hydrogenase engineering for hydrogen production / Marc Rousset and Laurent Cournac -- Nitrogenase-catalyzed hydrogen production by purple nonsulfur photosynthetic bacteria / Caroline S. Harwood -- Photosynthetic water-splitting for hydrogen production / Michael Seibert, Paul W. King, Matthew C.Posewitz, Anastasios Melis, and Maria L. Ghirardi -- Fuel cells:electricity -- Electricity production with electricigens / Derek R. Lovley and Kelly P. Nevin -- Microbial fuel cells as an engineered ecosystem / Peter Aelterman, Korneel Rabaey, Liesje De Schamphelaire, Peter Clauwaert,Nico Boon, and Willy Verstraete -- Organic solvents -- Molecular aspects of butanol fermentation / Carlos J. Paredes, Shawn W. Jones,Ryan S. Senger, Jacob R. Borden, Ryan Sillers, and Eleftherios T. Papoutsakis -- Practical aspects of butanol production / Thaddeus C.Ezeji and Hans P. Blaschek -- Biorefineries for solvents: the MixAlco process / Cesar B. Granda and Mark T. Holtzapple -- Increased biofuel production by metabolic engineering of Clostridium acetobutylicum / Leighann Sullivan, Miles C. Scotcher, and George N. Bennett -- Microbial oil recovery -- Emerging oil field biotechnologies: prevention of oil field souring by nitrate injection / Gerrit Voordouw -- Microbial approaches for the enhanced recovery of methane and oil from mature reservoirs / Joseph M. Suflita and Michael J. McInerney -- Exploiting microbial genomes for energy production -- Genomic prospecting for microbial biodiesel production / Athanasios Lykidis and Natalia Ivanova
