A guide to field philosophy : case studies and practical strategies
1.Digging, Sowing, Building: Philosophy as Activity Evelyn Brister and Robert Frodeman Part I: Collaboration and Communication 2. Embedding Ethics in Neural Engineering: An Integrated Transdisciplinary Collaboration Sara Goering and Eran Klein 3. Lab Report: Lessons from a Multi-Year Collaboration between Nanoscience and Philosophy of Science Julia R.S. Bursten 4. Philosophical Dialogue as Field Philosophy Michael O'Rourke, Stephanie E. Vasko, Chet McLeskey, and Marisa A. Rinkus 5. Ethics Lab: Harnessing Design Methodologies for Translational Ethics Margaret Little, Elizabeth Edenberg, Sydney Luken, and Jonathan Healey Part II: Policymaking and the Public Sphere 6. Learning to Collaborate in Development Policy Ryan Muldoon 7. Philosophy in the IPCC John Broome 8. Philosophy and Science Policy: A Report from the Field J. Britt Holbrook 9. Philosophical Boundary Work for Wildlife Conservation: The Case of the Oostvaardersplassen Jozef Keulartz 10. Values-Informed Decision Support: The Place of Philosophy Nancy Tuana Part III: Fieldwork in the Academy 11. University Leadership as Philosophical Fieldwork Daniel Little 12. We Are Always Already Engaged: Epistemological Fieldwork in the Real World of the University Naomi Scheman 13. Promoting Ethics in STEM and Society Rachelle Hollander 14. A Philosopher's Field Guide to Talking with Engineers Don Howard 15. Ecotourism with a Hand-Lens: A Field Environmental Philosophy Experience from the South of the WorldRicardo Rozzi, María Teresa La Valle, Shaun Russell, Bernard Goffinet, and Francisca Massardo Part IV: Fieldwork in the Professions 16. Balancing Theoretical Autonomy and Practical Engagement Tsjalling Swierstra and Merel Noorman 17. The Cutting Edge: A Surgical Case Study in Field Philosophy Jane Johnson 18. Advocating for Human Trafficking Victims Roksana Alavi 19. Field Philosophy in an Actual Field Paul B. Thompson Part V: Changing Philosophical Practice 20. Grassroots Philosophy and Going against the Grain Alisa Bierria 21. Philosophy and Addiction: Understanding and Transforming Suffering Peg O'Connor 22. Formal Epistemology in a Tropical Savanna Sahotra Sarkar 23. Learning from a Fracking Fracas Adam Briggle 24. The Future of Field Philosophy: Lessons Learned and Next Steps Evelyn Brister, Robert Frodeman, and Adam Briggle
