Spring Persistence with Hibernate
Learn how to use the core Hibernate APIs and tools as part of the Spring Framework. This book illustrates how these two frameworks can be best utilized. Other persistence solutions available in Spring are also shown including the Java Persistence API (JPA). Spring Persistence with Hibernate, Second Edition has been updated to cover Spring Framework version 4 and Hibernate version 5. After reading and using this book, you'll have the fundamentals to apply these persistence solutions into your own mission-critical enterprise Java applications that you build using Spring. Persistence is an important set of techniques and technologies for accessing and using data, and ensuring that data is mobile regardless of specific applications and contexts. In Java development, persistence is a key factor in enterprise, e-commerce, and other transaction-oriented applications. Today, the agile and open source Spring Framework is the leading out-of-the-box, open source solution for enterprise Java developers; in it, you can find a number of Java persistence solutions. What You'll Learn Use Spring Persistence, including using persistence tools in Spring as well as choosing the best Java persistence frameworks outside of Spring Take advantage of Spring Framework features such as Inversion of Control (IoC), aspect-oriented programming (AOP), and more Work with Spring JDBC, use declarative transactions with Spring, and reap the benefits of a lightweight persistence strategy Harness Hibernate and integrate it into your Spring-based enterprise Java applications for transactions, data processing, and more Integrate JPA for creating a well-layered persistence tier in your enterprise Java application Who This Book Is For This book is ideal for developers interested in learning more about persistence framework options on the Java platform, as well as fundamental Spring concepts. Because the book covers several persistence frameworks, it is suitable for anyone interested in learning more about Spring or any of the frameworks covered. Lastly, this book covers advanced topics related to persistence architecture and design patterns, and is ideal for beginning developers looking to learn more in these areas.
1. Architecting Your Application with Spring, Hibernate, and Patterns -- 2. Spring Basics -- 3. Basic Application Setup -- 4. Persistence with Hibernate -- 5. DAOs and Querying -- 6. Transaction Management -- 7. Effective Testing -- 8. Best Practices and Advanced Techniques.
