History Education and Conflict Transformation : Social Psychological Theories, History Teaching and Reconciliation
Chapter 1. Conflict Transformation and History Teaching: Social Psychological Theory and Its Contributions; Charis Psaltis, Mario Carretero & Sabina Čehajić-Clancy -- PART I: Global and Regional Perspectives on Textbook Writing, Civil Society Organizations and Social Representations -- Chapter 2. History Textbook Writing in Post-Conflict Societies: From Battlefield to Site and Means of Conflict Transformation ; Denise Bentrovato -- Chapter 3. Confronting History and Reconciliation: A Review of Civil Society’s Approaches to Transforming Conflict Narratives; Rezarta Bilali & Rima Mahmut -- Chapter 4. Social Representations of the Past in Post-Conflict Societies: Adherence to Official Historical Narratives and Distrust through Heightened Threats; Charis Psaltis, Renata Franc, Anouk Smeekes, Maria Ioannou & Iris Žeželj -- PART II. Social Psychological Perspectives of Perpetrators and Victims -- Chapter 5. Power Struggles in the Remembering of Historical Intergroup Conflict: Hegemonic and Counter-Narratives about the Argentine “Conquest of the Desert”; Alicia Barreiro, Cecilia Wainryb & Mario Carretero -- Chapter 6. When History Teaching Turns into Parrhesia: The Case of Italian Colonial Crimes; Giovanna Leone -- Chapter 7. How to Teach about the Holocaust? Psychological Obstacles in Historical Education in Poland and Germany; Michal Bilewicz, Marta Witkowska, Silviana Stubig, Marta Beneda & Roland Imhoff -- PART III: Textbook and Teacher Perspectives in Post-Transition and Post-Conflict SocietiesChapter 8. History Teaching as ‘Propaganda’? Teachers’ Communication Styles in Post-Transition Societies; Katrin Kello & Wolfgang Wagner -- Chapter 9. A Clash of Communication? Intervening in Textbook Writing and Curriculum Development in Bosnia and Herzegovina after the War of 1992-1995; Falk Pingel -- Chapter 10. Textbook Narratives and Patriotism in Belarus; Anna Zadora -- PART IV: Pedagogical Approaches to History Teaching and Reconciliation -- Chapter 11. The Official, the Empathetic, and the Critical: Three Approaches to History Teaching and Reconciliation in Israel; Tsafrir Goldberg -- Chapter 12. The Potential Role of Social Psychology in History Teaching after Conflict: Exploring two History Education Projects Aiming to Improve Community Relations in Northern Ireland; Alan McCully & Jackie Reilly -- Chapter 13. Formal and Non-formal Reform Efforts of History Teaching in Cyprus: Openings and Closures for Dangerous Memories and Reconciliation Pedagogies; Michalinos Zembylas & Hakan Karahasan -- Chapter 14. Concluding Commentary: The Teaching of Recent and Violent Conflicts as a Challenge for History Education; Mario Carretero
This book is open access under a CC BY 4.0 license. This volume discusses the effects, models and implications of history teaching in relation to conflict transformation and reconciliation from a social-psychological perspective. Bringing together a mix of established and young researchers and academics, from the fields of psychology, education, and history, the book provides an in-depth exploration of the role of historical narratives, history teaching, history textbooks and the work of civil society organizations in post-conflict societies undergoing reconciliation processes, and reflects on the state of the art at both the international and regional level. As well as dealing with the question of the ‘perpetrator-victim’ dynamic, the book also focuses on the particular context of transition in and out of cold war in Eastern Europe and the post-conflict settings of Northern Ireland, Israel and Palestine and Cyprus. It is also exploring the pedagogical classroom practices of history teaching and a critical comparison of various possible approaches taken in educational praxis. The book will make compelling reading for students and researchers of education, history, sociology, peace and conflict studies and psychology
