Swift 3 for Absolute Beginners
Stay motivated and overcome obstacles while learning to use Swift Playgrounds to be a great iOS developer. This book is perfect for those with no programming background, those with some programming experience but no object-oriented experience, or those that have a great idea for an app but haven’t programmed since school, and it is now updated for Swift 3. Many people have a difficult time believing they can learn to write iOS apps. Swift 3 for Absolute Beginners, along with the free, live online training sessions will show you how to do so. You'll learn Object Oriented Programming and be introduced to HealthKit before moving on to write your own iPhone and Watch apps from scratch. Gary Bennett and Brad Lees are full-time professional iOS developers and have developed a broad spectrum of apps for Fortune 500 companies. The authors have taken their combined 12 years of writing apps, teaching online iOS courses, the experience from their first three iOS books, along with their online instruction and free online forum at XcelMe.com to create an excellent training book. What You’ll Learn: · Work with Swift classes, properties, and functions · Examine proper user interface and user experience design · Understand Swift data types: integers, floats, strings, and booleans · Use Swift data collections: arrays and dictionaries · Review Boolean logic, comparing data, and flow control Who This Book Is For Anyone who wants to learn to develop apps for the Mac, iPhone, and iPad, and Watch using the Swift programming language. No previous programming experience is necessary.
Ch. 1: Becoming a Great iOS Developer -- Ch. 2: Programming Basics -- Ch. 3: It’s All About the Data -- Ch. 4: Making Decisions, Program Flow, and App Design -- Ch. 5: Object-Oriented Programming with Swift -- Ch. 6: Learning Swift and Xcode -- Ch. 7: Swift Classes, Objects, and Methods -- Ch. 8: Programming Basics in Swift -- Ch. 9: Comparing Data -- Ch. 10: Creating User Interfaces -- Ch. 11: Storing Information -- Ch. 12: Protocols and Delegates -- Ch. 13: Introducing the Xcode Debugger -- Ch. 14: A Swift iPhone App -- Ch. 15: Apple Watch and WatchKit -- Ch. 16: A Swift HealthKit iPhone App.
