Freedom From Violence and Lies : Essays on Russian Poetry and Music by Simon Karlinsky
Frontmatter -- Contents -- Preface -- I. PUSHKIN AND ROMANTICISM -- 1. Two Pushkin Studies -- 2. Fortunes of an Infanticide -- 3. Pushkin Re-Englished -- 4. A Mystical Musicologist -- 5. Küchelbecker's Trilogy, Izhorsky, As an Example of the Romantic Revival of the Medieval Mystery Play -- 6. Misanthropy and Sadism in Lermontov's Plays -- II. MODERNISM, ITS PAST, ITS LEGACY -- 7. Annensky's Materiality -- 8. Zinaida Gippius and Russian Poetry -- 9. Died and Survived -- 10. Symphonic Structure in Andrei Bely's Pervoe svidanie -- 11. The Death and Resurrection of Mikhail Kuzmin -- 12. Nikolai Gumilyov and Théophile Gautier -- 13. An Emerging Reputation Comparable to Pushkin's -- 14. Tsvetaeva in English: A Review Article -- 15. A New Edition of the Poems of Marina Tsvetaeva -- 16. New Information about the Émigré Period of Marina Tsvetaeva (Based on Material from Her Correspondence with Anna Tesková) -- 17. Pasternak, Pushkin, and the Ocean in Marina Tsvetaeva's From the Sea -- 18. "Traveling to Geneva...": On a Less-than-Successful Trip by Marina Tsvetaeva -- 19. Isadora Had a Taste for "Russian Love" -- 20. Surrealism in Twentieth-Century Russian Poetry: Churilin, Zabolotsky, Poplavsky -- 21. Evtushenko and the Underground Poets -- III. POETRY ABROAD -- 22. In Search of Poplavsky: A Collage -- 23. Morshen, or a Canoe to Eternity -- 24. Morshen after Ekho i zerkalo -- 25. A Hidden Masterpiece: Valery Pereleshin's Ariel -- 26. Russian Culture in Manchuria and the Memoirs of Valery Pereleshin -- IV. ON CHAIKOVSKY -- 27. A Review of Tchaikovsky: A Self-Portrait by Alexandra Orlova -- 28. Should We Retire Chaikovsky? -- 29. Man or Myth? The Retrieval of the True Chaikovsky -- 30. Chaikovsky and the Pantomime of Derision -- V. ON STRAVINSKY -- 31. The Composer's Workshop -- 32. The Repatriation of Igor Stravinsky -- 33. Igor Stravinsky and Russian Preliterate Theater -- VI. ON SHOSTAKOVICH -- 34. "Our Destinies Are Bad" -- 35. Taking Notes for Testimony -- VII. SONG AND DANCE -- 36. The Uses of Chaliapin -- 37. Russian Comic Opera in the Age of Catherine the Great -- 38. Contralto: Rossini, Gautier and Gumilyov -- 39. A Cultural Educator of Genius -- 40. Opera and Drama in Ravel -- Index of Names
Freedom from Violence and Lies is a collection of forty-one essays by Simon Karlinsky (1924-2009), a prolific and controversial scholar of modern Russian literature, sexual politics, and music who taught in the University of California, Berkeley's Department of Slavic Languages and Literatures from 1964 to 1991. Among Karlinsky's full-length works are major studies of Marina Tsvetaeva and Nikolai Gogol, Russian Drama from Its Beginnings to the Age of Pushkin; editions of Anton Chekhov's letters; writings by Russian émigrés; and correspondence between Vladimir Nabokov and Edmund Wilson. Karlinsky also wrote frequently for professional journals and mainstream publications like the New York Times Book Review and the Nation. The present volume is the first collection of such shorter writings, spanning more than three decades. It includes twenty-seven essays on literary topics and fourteen on music, seven of which have been newly translated from the Russian originals
