Learn Java for Web Development
Web development isstill one of today's most popular, active, and important programming anddevelopment activities. From a single web page to an e-commerce-enabled website to a fully-fledged web application, the Java programming language and itsframeworks allow you great flexibility and productivity for your webapplication development. Learn Java for WebDevelopmentteaches web developers who are new to Java key skills, Java-based languages,and frameworks to build simple or complex web sites and applications. As soonas you pick up this book, Vishal Layka's experience guides you on a verypractical learning and building journey. Youwill learn the Java nuts and bolts necessary to build a simple"HelloWorld" Java (native) application, as well as a"HelloWorld" Java-based web application example that utilizes servletsand Java Server Pages (JSPs). Over the course of the book, you'll learn moreabout servlets and JSPs and delve into Java Server Faces (JSFs) and the expressionlanguage found in each of these by applying them in a real-world case study-abook store e-commerce application. Then you’ll build your web application usingApache Struts2 and the Spring MVC framework. Thebook concludes by exploring the web application that you've built and examiningindustry best practices and how these might fit with your application, as wellas covering alternative Java Web frameworks like Groovy/Grails and Scala/Play 2.You also can explore the basics of Java, Groovy, and Scala in the book’sappendices. While reading thisbook, you'll see all this in action and you can use it as a starting point forfurther Java web development. Study and experiment with the many source codeexamples, and later apply them to your own web application building endeavorsand 2:00 AM challenges
Web development isstill one of today's most popular, active, and important programming anddevelopment activities. From a single web page to an e-commerce-enabled website to a fully-fledged web application, the Java programming language and itsframeworks allow you great flexibility and productivity for your webapplication development. Learn Java for WebDevelopmentteaches web developers who are new to Java key skills, Java-based languages, and frameworks to build simple or complex web sites and applications. As soonas you pick up this book, Vishal Layka's experience guides you on a verypractical learning and building journey. Youwill learn the Java nuts and bolts necessary to build a simple"HelloWorld" Java (native) application, as well as a"HelloWorld" Java-based web application example that utilizes servletsand Java Server Pages (JSPs). Over the course of the book, you'll learn moreabout servlets and JSPs and delve into Java Server Faces (JSFs) and the expressionlanguage found in each of these by applying them in a real-world case study-abook store e-commerce application. Then you'll build your web application usingApache Struts2 and the Spring MVC framework. Thebook concludes by exploring the web application that you've built and examiningindustry best practices and how these might fit with your application, as wellas covering alternative Java Web frameworks like Groovy/Grails and Scala/Play 2. You also can explore the basics of Java, Groovy, and Scala in the book'sappendices. While reading thisbook, you'll see all this in action and you can use it as a starting point forfurther Java web development. Study and experiment with the many source codeexamples, and later apply them to your own web application building endeavorsand 2:00 AM challenges
