API Management : An Architect's Guide to Developing and Managing APIs for Your Organization
Maximize the impact of your assets and business services by providing APIs for developers and other users. The journey described in this book starts with identifying business assets. As part of the API team, you then need to identify and define the requirements of traffic management, security, mediation, and orchestration. You also must define metrics for the analytics to measure the success of the overall API program. API documentation and the ease of developer onboarding also determine the success of the APIs. Finally, monetization of these APIs leads to revenue generation for the enterprise. Authors De-an expert in building and managing API solutions-provides enterprise architects, designers, and technologists with insight into the world of APIs and the various technical aspects of building and managing an effective API management solution. API Management: Developing and Managing APIs for your Organization: • Introduces the basics of APIs and highlights their value • Provides an overview of technologies for building an API management solution and defines the requirements, including how to build a RESTful API • Offers design principles for building developer-friendly APIs • Explains how to secure your APIs • Shows how to use API analytics to measure the success of your APIs • Demonstrates how to monetize APIs Finally, API Management touches on various technical nuances of creating, distributing, and managing an API. This book will not only help you learn how to design, build, deploy, and manage an API for an enterprise scale, but also generate revenue for your organization
1. Introduction to APIs -- 2. Concepts and Technologies for API Management -- 3. Designing RESTful API Interfaces -- 4. API Documentation -- 5. API Patterns -- 6. API Version Management -- 7. API Security -- 8. API Monetization -- 9. API Testing Strategy -- 10. API Analytics -- 11. API Developer Portal -- 12. API Governance
