Carnivorous plants : physiology, ecology, and evolution
Non-motile traps / Ulrike Bauer, Reinhard Jetter, and Simon Poppinga -- Biochemistry of prey digestion and nutrient absorption / Ildikó Matušková, Andrej Pavlovič, and Tanya Renner -- Mineral nutrition of terrestrial carnivorous plants / Lubomír Adamec and Andrej Pavlovič -- Why are plants carnivorous? Cost/benefit analysis, whole-plant growth, and the context-specific advantages of botanical carnivory / Thomas J. Givnish, K. William Sparks, Steven J. Hunter ... et al. -- Ecophysiology of aquatic carnivorous plants / Lubomír Adamec -- Biotechnology with carnivorous plants / Laurent Legendre and Douglas W. Darnowski -- Prey selection and specialization by carnivorous plants / Douglas Darnowksi, Ulrike Bauer, Marcos Méndez ... et al. -- Reproductive biology and pollinator-prey conflicts / Adam T. Cross, Arthur R. Davis, Andreas Fleischmann ... et al. -- Commensals of Nepenthes pitchers / Leonora S. Bittleston -- Pitcher-plant communities as model systems for addressing fundamental questions in ecology and evolution / Thomas E. Miller, William E. Bradshaw, and Christina M. Holzapfel -- The Utricularia-associated microbiome : composition, function, and ecology / Dagmara Sirová, Jiří Bárta, Jakub Borovec ... et al. -- Nutritional mutualism of Nepenthes and Roridula / Jonathan A. Moran, Bruce Anderson, Lijnin Chin ... et al. -- Conservation of carnivorous plants / Charles Clark, Adam Cross, and Barry Rice -- Estimating the exposure of carnivorous plants to rapid climatic change / Matthew C. Fitzpatrick and Aaron M. Ellison -- The future of research with carnivorous plants / Aaron M. Ellison and Lubomir Adamec.
Introduction : what is a carnivorous plant? / Aaron M. Ellison and Lubomir Adamec -- Biogeography and habitats of carnivorous plants / J. Stephen Brewer and Jan Schlauer -- Evolution of carnivory in angiosperms / Andreas Fleischmann, Jan Schlauer, Stephen A. Smith ... et al. -- Systematics and evolution of Droseraceae / Andreas Fleischmann, Adam T. Cross, Robert Gibson ... et al. -- Systematics and evolution of Nepenthes / Charles Clark, Jan Schlauer, Jonathan Moran ... et al. -- Systematics and evolution of Lentibulariaceae: I. Pinguicula / Andreas Fleishcmann and Aymeric Roccia -- Systematics and evolution of Lentibulariaceae: II. Genlisea / Andreas Fleischmann -- Systematics and evolution of Lentibulariaceae: III. Utricularia / Richard W. Jobson, Paulo C. Baleeiro, and Cástor Guisande -- Systematics and evolution of Sarraceniaceae / Robert F.C. Naczi -- Systematics and evolution of small genera of carnivorous plants / Adam T. Cross, Maria Paniw, André Vito Scatigna ... et al. -- Carnivorous plant genomes / Tanya Renner, Tianying Lan, Kimberly M. Farr ... et al. -- Attraction of prey / John D. Horner, Bartosz J. Plachno, Ulrike Bauer ... et al. -- Functional anatomy of carnivorous traps / Bartosz J. Plachno and Lyudmila E. Muravnik -- Motile traps / Simon Poppinga, Ulrike Bauer, Thomas Speck ... et al.
