Photodegradation : mechanisms and applications
Recent development of plasmonic photocatalysts for photodegradation of organic pollutants / Tao Li, Huijuan Jing and Deliang Chen -- Photodegradation of profoxydim herbicide; kinetics, phytotoxicity bioassay and determination of relevant parameters by QSAR models / P. Sandín-España, J. J. Villaverde, B. Sevilla-Morán, M. J. Patiño-Ropero, J. L. Alonso-Prados and I. Santín-Montanyá -- Photodegradation mechanism of cyanine dyes / Masanori Fuyuki -- Photochemistry of cobalamins / Kiran Qadeer, Adeel Arsalan, Zubair Anwar and Iqbal Ahmad -- Two dimensional (2D) tungsten disulfide (WS2) as a cocatalyst for degradation of organic pollutants / S. V. Prabhakar Vattikuti -- Photodegradation of water contaminants and humic acids of different nature and genesis using various light sources / Irina V. Sokolova and Olga N. Tchaikovskaya.
"Organic pollutants are harmful to the ecological environment and human health. In Photodegradation: Mechanisms and Applications, the authors propose photodegradation as an attractive strategy to remove organic pollutants. Photodegradation only requires suitable photocatalysts and light, and the sun is an inexhaustible light source. Next, the authors investigate the importance of the photochemical process on the fate of profoxydim in water determining kinetic parameters in aqueous media and detecting photoproducts formed. To obtain more information, a phytotoxicity bioassay study of the photodegraded herbicide on plant growth is performed. The photodegradation mechanism of cyanine dyes is examined, as a concise understanding of the photodegradation mechanism of cyanine dyes will result in the proper application of the photodegradation mechanism. Future prospects for the application of the multiphoton photodegradation of cyanine dyes are described. Also discussed is cyanocobalamin or vitamin B12, a component of vitamin B complex that acts as an essential biological co-factor. It plays a vital role in the metabolism of amino acids, fatty acids, hormones and numerous other biological compounds. Vitamin B12 group is chemically known as cobalamins which consist of cyanocobalamin, aquocobalamin, 5-deoxyadenosyl cobalamin and methylcobalamin"--
