The Routledge handbook of planning history
Preface and acknowledgements -- Notes on contributors -- The what, why, and how of planning history / Carola Hein -- Writing planning history : agents, theories, methods, and typologies -- The pioneers, institutions and vehicles of planning history / Stephen V Ward -- Interdisciplinarity in planning history / Nancy H.Kwak -- Planning history and theory : institutions, comparison, and temporal processes / André Sorensen -- The history of planning methodology / Peter Batey -- Biographical method / Robert Freestone -- Planning diffusion : agents, mechanisms, networks and theories / Stephen V Ward -- Global systems foundations of the discipline : colonial, post-colonial and other power structures / Robert Home -- Time, place and culture : from Euro-American to global planning history -- The ancient past in the urban present : the use of early models in urban design / Michael E. Smith, Carola Hein -- Writing planning history in the English-speaking world / Robert Freestone -- Key planning histories of the developing western tradition from the mid-19th century to the early-20th century / David Massey -- Urbanisme, urbanismo, urbanistica : Latin European urbanism / Javier Monclâus, Carmen Díez Medina -- Urbanisme and the francophone sphere / Clément Orillard -- The German traditions of Städtebau and Stadtlandschaft and their diffusion through global exchange / Celina Kress -- Planning history in and of Russia and the Soviet Union / Maria Taylor, Irina V. Kukina -- From urbanism to planning process : convergences of Latin American countries / Maria Cristina da Silva Leme, Vera Lucia Motta Rezende -- Southeast Asia : colonial discourses / Abidin Kusno -- Postcolonial Southeast Asia / Abidin Kusno -- Idioms of Japanese planning historiography / Carola Hein -- The uses of planning history in China / Daniel B. Abramson -- Planning histories in the Arab world / Eric Verdeil, Joe Nasr -- Africa's urban planning palimpsest / Susan Parnell -- Sites and dynamics : issues, movements / Themes and Debates -- Politics, power and urban form / David Gordon -- Planning for economic development / Richard Hu -- Planning for infrastructure : lifelines, mobility, and urban developmenat / Domenic Vitiello -- Ports and urban waterfronts / Dirk Schubert -- Urban segments and event spaces : world's fairs and olympic sites / John R. Gold, Margaret M. Gold -- Public health and urban planning: intertwined histories / Russell Lopez -- Urbanism, housing and the city / Cor Wagenaar -- Global suburbanization in planning history / André Sorensen -- Opposition, participation, and community driven planning histories / Dirk Schubert -- Livability and environmental sustainability : from smoky to livable cities / Dieter Schott -- Disasters : recovery, replanning, reconstruction and resilience / Peter J. Larkham -- A history of heritage conservation in city planning / Jyoti Hosagrahar -- Futures -- Educating planners in history : a global perspective / Christopher Silver -- The imprint of history in the practice of city and regional planning lessons from the cincinnati case : 1925-2012 / Eugenie L. Birch -- Death of the author, center, and meta-theory : emerging planning histories and expanding methods of the early 21st century / Tom Avermaete -- Future narratives for planning history / Stephen J. Ramos.
2018 IPHS Special Book Prize Award Recipient. The Routledge Handbook of Planning History offers a comprehensive interdisciplinary overview of planning history since its emergence in the late 19th century, investigating the history of the discipline, its core writings, key people, institutions, vehicles, education, and practice. Combining theoretical, methodological, historical, comparative, and global approaches to planning history, The Routledge Handbook of Planning History explores the state of the discipline, its achievements and shortcomings, and its future challenges. A foundation for the discipline and a springboard for scholarly research, The Routledge Handbook of Planning History explores planning history on an international scale in thirty-eight chapters, providing readers with unique opportunities for comparison. The diverse contributions open up new perspectives on the many ways in which contemporary events, changing research needs, and cutting-edge methodologies shape the writing of planning history.
