The most important concepts in finance
Contents: Preface -- 1. What is money? from commodities to virtual currencies/bitcoin / Benton E. Gup -- 2. Blockchain: a primer / Gerald P. Dwyer -- 3. Innovating to new heists: regulating cyber threats in the financial services industry / Kristin N. Johnson -- 4. An overview of corporate governance / Melissa B. Frye -- 5. Regulating corporate governance in the public interest: the case of systemic risk / Steven L. Schwarcz -- 6. Who's winning the big match? surveying state versus private ownerships effect on corporate value and policy / Scott B. Guernsey and William L. Megginson -- 7. Interest rates / Tim Gallager -- 8. Insights from corporate life cycles / Benton E. Gup -- 9. Multi-asset investing: beyond the 60-40 ball park / Pankaj Agrrawal -- 10. Risk and the probability of insolvency: a regulatory perspective / Betsy Faulk, Walter Faulk, and Thomas Lutton -- 11. An economic perspective of big banks / Benton E. Gup -- 12. International real estate investment / Mary Alice Hines -- 13. The state of pension plans: challenges ahead / James R. Barth, John S. Jahera Jr. and Sunghoon Joo -- 14. An introduction to Islamic banking and finance / M. Kabir Hassan, Sirajo Aliyu and Jennifer Brodmann -- 15. Stabilizing large financial institutions with contingent capital certificates. / Mark J. Flannery -- 16. The state of research and the economic environment in small-firm finance / Ramon P. DeGennaro and Michael B. McDonald -- Index.
Anyone trying to understand finance has to contend with the evolving and dynamic nature of the topic. Changes in economic conditions, regulations, technology, competition, globalization, and other factors regularly impact the development of the field, but certain essential concepts remain key to a good understanding. This book provides insights about the most important concepts in finance. Drawing from a broad background in finance, Benton Gup has brought together sixteen chapters written by leading academics and professionals to deal with topics including Bitcoin, cyber security, banking, corporate governance, state vs. private ownership, pension plans, interest rates, multi-asset investing, real estate, US and Islamic banking, and other issues that have a direct impact on the field, its practitioners and scholars trying to make sense of it. This book covers timely issues in a way that academics, regulators, investors, and bankers will find relevant and useable
