Handbook of modal logic
List of Contributors -- -- Preface (P. Blackburn, J. van Benthem and F. Wolter) -- -- Part 1. Basic Theory -- Modal Logic: A Semantic Perspective (J. van Benthem and P. Blackburn) -- Modal Proof Theory (M. Fitting) -- Complexity of Modal Logic (M. Marx) -- Computational Modal Logic (I. Horrocks, U. Hustadt, U. Sattler, R. Schmidt) -- Part 2. Advanced Theory -- Model Theory of Modal Logic (V. Goranko and M. Otto) -- Algebras and Co-algebras (Y. Venema) -- Modal Decision Problems (F. Wolter and M. Zakharyaschev) -- Modal Consequence Relations (M. Kracht) -- Part 3. Variations and Extensions -- First-order Modal Logic (T. Br̃uner and S. Ghilardi) -- Higher Order Modal Logic (R. Muskens) -- Temporal Logic (I. Hodkinson and M. Reynolds) -- Modal Mu-Calculi (J. Bradfield and C. Stirling) -- Description Logic (F. Baader and C. Lutz) -- Hybrid Logics (C. Areces and B. ten Cate) -- Combining Modal Logics (A. Kurucz) -- Part 4. Variations and Extensions -- Modal Logic in Mathematics (S. Artemov) -- Automata-theoretic Techniques for Temporal Reasoning (M. Vardi) -- Intelligent Agents and Common-sense Reasoning (J.-J. Meyer and F. Veltman) -- Applications of Modal Logic in Lingistics (L. Moss and H.-J. Tiede) -- Modal Logic for Games and Information (W. van der Hoek and M. Pauly) -- Modal Logic and Philosophy (S. Lindstṟm and K. Segerberg) -- Index
The Handbook of Modal Logic contains 20 articles, which collectively introduce contemporary modal logic, survey current research, and indicate the way in which the field is developing. The articles survey the field from a wide variety of perspectives: the underling theory is explored in depth, modern computational approaches are treated, and six major applications areas of modal logic (in Mathematics, Computer Science, Artificial Intelligence, Linguistics, Game Theory, and Philosophy) are surveyed. The book contains both well-written expository articles, suitable for beginners approaching the subject for the first time, and advanced articles, which will help those already familiar with the field to deepen their expertise. Please visit: http://people.uleth.ca/~woods/RedSeriesPromo_WP/PubSLPR.html - Compact modal logic reference - Computational approaches fully discussed - Contemporary applications of modal logic covered in depth
