The illustrated network : how TCP/IP works in a modern network
In 1994, W. Richard Stevens and Addison-Wesley published a networking classic: TCP/IP Illustrated. The model for that book was a brilliant, unfettered approach to networking concepts that has proven itself over time to be popular with readers of beginning to intermediate networking knowledge. The Illustrated Network takes this time-honored approach and modernizes it by creating not only a much larger and more complicated network, but also by incorporating all the networking advancements that have taken place since the mid-1990s, which are many. This book takes the popular Stevens approach and modernizes it, employing 2008 equipment, operating systems, and router vendors. It presents an?illustrated? explanation of how TCP/IP works with consistent examples from a real, working network configuration that includes servers, routers, and workstations. Diagnostic traces allow the reader to follow the discussion with unprecedented clarity and precision. True to the title of the book, there are 330+ diagrams and screen shots, as well as topology diagrams and a unique repeating chapter opening diagram. Illustrations are also used as end-of-chapter questions. A complete and modern network was assembled to write this book, with all the material coming from real objects connected and running on the network, not assumptions. Presents a real world networking scenario the way the reader sees them in a device-agnostic world. Doesn?t preach one platform or the other. Here are ten key differences between the two: StevensGoralski?s Older operating systems (AIX, svr4,etc.)Newer OSs (XP, Linux, FreeBSD, etc.) Two routers (Cisco, Telebit (obsolete))Two routers (M-series, J-series) Slow Ethernet and SLIP linkFast Ethernet, Gigabit Ethernet, and SONET/SDH links (modern) Tcpdump for tracesNewer, better utility to capture traces (Ethereal, now has a new name!) No IPSecIPSec No multicastMulticast No router security discussedFirewall routers detailed No WebFull Web browser HTML consideration No IPv6IPv6 overview Few configuration details More configuration details (ie, SSH, SSL, MPLS, ATM/FR consideration, wireless LANS, OSPF and BGP routing protocols New Modern Approach to Popular Topic Adopts the popular Stevens approach and modernizes it, giving the reader insights into the most up-to-date network equipment, operating systems, and router vendors. Shows and Tells Presents an illustrated explanation of how TCP/IP works with consistent examples from a real, working network configuration that includes servers, routers, and workstations, allowing the reader to follow the discussion with unprecedented clarity and precision. Over 330 Illustrations True to the title, there are 330 diagrams, screen shots, topology diagrams, and a unique repeating chapter opening diagram to reinforce concepts Based on Actual Networks A complete and modern network was assembled to write this book, with all the material coming from real objects connected and running on the network, bringing the real world, not theory, into sharp focus
1 Protocols and Layers -- 2 TCP/IP Protocols and Devices -- 3 Network Technologies -- 4 IPv4 and IPv6 Addressing -- 5 Resolution Protocol -- 6 IPv4 and IPv6 Headers -- 7 ICMP -- 8 Routing -- 9 Forwarding IP Packets -- 10 User Datagram Protocol (UDP) -- 11 TCP -- 12 Multiplexing and Sockets -- 13 Routing and Peering -- 14 IGPs: RIP, OSPF, and IS-IS -- 15 BGP -- 16 Multicast -- 17 IP Switching and Convergence -- 18 DHCP -- 19 DNS: The Domain Name System -- 20 FTP -- 21 SMTP and Email -- 22 HTTP -- 23 Securing Sockets with SSL -- 24 SNMP -- 25 SSH (Remote Access) -- 26 MPLS-based VPNs -- 27 NAT -- 28 Firewalls -- 29 IPSec -- 30 Voice over IP
Networking basics -- Protocols and layers -- TCP/IP protocols and devices -- Network link technologies -- Core protocols -- IPv4 and IPv6 addressing -- Address resolution protocol -- IPv4 and IPv6 headers -- Internet control message protocol -- Routing -- Forwarding IP packets -- User datagram protocol -- Transmission control protocol -- Multiplexing and sockets -- Routing and routing protocol -- Routing and peering -- IGPs: RIP, OSPF, and IS-IS -- Border gateway protocol -- Multicast -- MPLS and IP switching -- Application level -- Dynamic host configuration protocol -- The domain name system -- File transfer protocol -- SMTP and email -- Hypertext transfer protocol -- Securing sockets with SSL -- Network management -- Simple network management protocol -- Security -- Secure shell (remote access) -- MPLS-based virtual private networks -- Network address translation -- Firewalls -- IP security -- Media -- Voice over Internet protocol
