Handbook of research methods and applications in spatially integrated social science
Building on the foundations of human geography and regional science, there has now emerged a powerful theoretical basis that underpins a spatially integrated approach in social science research. This approach explicitly recognizes the key role that geographical (or spatial) concepts - such as distance, distribution, location, proximity, connectivity, place, neighbourhood and region - play in human society and the behaviour of individuals, groups and organizations. It also promotes research that advances the understanding of spatial patterns and processes. The chapters in this unique Handbook provide broad coverage of the theoretical foundations and methodologies that typify research using a Spatially Integrated Social Science (SISS) approach. This insightful volume is intended chiefly as an introduction for students and budding researchers who wish to investigate social, economic and behavioural phenomena by giving explicit consideration to the roles of space and place. The majority of chapters provide an emphasis on demonstrating applications of methods, tools and techniques that are used in SISS research, including long-established and relatively new approaches. Accessible and packed with key instructions on organising SISS research, the book is structured into five distinct parts which give the reader a unparallelled overview of the field: A Spatially Integrated Social Science Approach, Setting Up Your Research, Data Sources, Data Collection and Information Generation, Research Tools and Techniques and Applications, Producing Research Output. This volume will appeal to all students and researchers with an interest in understanding the techniques, method and application of the spatial dimension of social sciences
pt. I. A spatially integrated social science approach -- pt. II. Setting up your research -- pt. III. Data sources, data collection and information generation -- pt. IV. Research tools and techniques and applications -- pt. V. Producing research output.
