Nanoparticle technology handbook
Foreword -- Preface -- -- Fundamentals -- -- Chapter 1. Basic properties and measuring methods of nanoparticles -- Chapter 2. Structural control of nanoparticles -- Chapter 3. Properties and behavior of nanoparticles and their dispersed system -- Chapter 4. Control of nanostructure of materials -- Chapter 5. Characterization methods for nanostructure of materials -- Chapter 6. Evaluation methods for properties of nanostructured body -- Chapter 7. Environmental and safety issues with nanoparticles -- Applications -- -- Chapter 1. Dispersion of silica particles using alkoxysilane and industrialization -- Chapter 2. Generation of metal nanoparticles using reactive plasma arc evaporation -- Chapter 3. Sensing based on localized surface plasmon resonance in metallic nanoparticles -- Chapter 4. Microelectronics packaging by metal nanoparticle pastes -- Chapter 5. Dye-sensitized solar cell Utilizing metal nanoparticles -- Chapter 6. Design of nanoparticles for oral delivery of peptide drugs -- Chapter 7. Formation of thick electronic ceramic films with bonding technique of crystalline fine particles and their applications -- Chapter 8. Development and multi-functionalization of high-functional separation membranes -- Chapter 9. Development of polymer-clay nanocomposites by dispersion particle into polymer materials -- Chapter 10. Development of novel ferroelectric materials -- Chapter 11. Development of new phosphors -- Chapter 12. Zeolite membrane -- Chapter 13. Enhancement of the performance of insulating materials -- Chapter 14. Barium titanate nanoparticles synthesized under sub and supercritical water conditions -- Chapter 15. Ceramic filter for trapping diesel particles -- Chapter 16. Nano particle formation of DNA (globule transformation) -- Chapter 17. Addressing of nano-particles by using DNA molecules -- Chapter 18. Development of high performance electrochemical reactors -- Chapter 19. Dendrimers and their application -- Chapter 20. Electrical conductive CNT dispersed Si3N4 ceramics -- Chapter 21. Development of functional skincare cosmetics using biodegradable PLGA nanospheres -- Chapter 22. Development of photonic crystals based on nanoparticle assembly -- Chapter 23. Liquid-crystalline inorganic nano- and fine- particles -- Chapter 24. Closely packed colloidal crystal assembled with nano-particles and its application for smart materials with tunable structural color -- Chapter 25. Development of new cosmetics based on nanoparticles -- Chapter 26. Dispersion control of AL203 nano-particles in ethanol -- Chapter 27. Development of thermoresponsive magnetic nanoparticle and its deployment in the biotechnology field -- Chapter 28. Development of fuel cells -- Chapter 29. Delivery to the brain -- Chapter 30. Nozzle-free ink jet technology -- Chapter 31. Development of exhaust catalyst -- Chapter 32. Development of optical memory using semiconductor nanoparticles -- Chapter 33. Development of bright phosphors using glasses incorporating semiconductor nanoparticles -- Chapter 34. Development of photocatalyst inserted into surface of porous aluminosilicate -- Chapter 35. AC overhead transmission line audible noise reduction measures using surface improvement -- Chapter 36. Development of a high performance secondary battery by controlling the surface structure -- Chapter 37. Pinpointed delivery -- Chapter 38. Expression of optical function by nanostructure using femtosecond laser processing -- Chapter 39. Instantaneous nano-foaming method for fabrication of closed-porosity silica particle -- Chapter 40. Evaluation and applications of dispersing carbon nanotube CNT in the polymers -- Chapter 41. Surface modification of inorganic nanoparticles by organic functional groups -- Chapter 42. Fabrication technique of organic nanocrystals and their optical properties and materialization -- Chapter 43. Bio-imaging with quantum dots -- Chapter 44. Application of quantum dots for the bio-medical engineering
Nanoparticle technology, which handles the preparation, processing, application and characterisation of nanoparticles, is a new and revolutionary technology. It becomes the core of nanotechnology as an extension of the conventional Fine Particle / Powder Technology. Nanoparticle technology plays an important role in the implementation of nanotechnology in many engineering and industrial fields including electronic devices, advanced ceramics, new batteries, engineered catalysts, functional paint and ink, Drug Delivery System, biotechnology, etc.; and makes use of the unique properties of the nanoparticles which are completely different from those of the bulk materials. This new handbook is the first to explain complete aspects of nanoparticles with many application examples showing their advantages and advanced development. There are handbooks which briefly mention the nanosized particles or their related applications, but no handbook describing the complete aspects of nanoparticles has been published so far. The handbook elucidates of the basic properties of nanoparticles and various nanostructural materials with their characterisation methods in the first part. It also introduces more than 40 examples of practical and potential uses of nanoparticles in the later part dealing with applications. It is intended to give readers a clear picture of nanoparticles as well as new ideas or hints on their applications to create new materials or to improve the performance of the advanced functional materials developed with the nanoparticles. * Introduces all aspects of nanoparticle technology, from the fundamentals to applications. * Includes basic information on the preparation through to the characterization of nanoparticles from various viewpoints * Includes information on nanostructures, which play an important role in practical applications
