Pro ASP.NET Core MVC
1: Putting ASP.NET MVC In Context -- 2: Your First MVC Application -- 3: The MVC Pattern, Projects and Conventions -- 4: Essential C# Features -- 5: Working with Razor -- 6: Working with Visual Studio -- 7: Testing MVC Applications -- 8: SportsStore: A Real Application -- 9: SportsStore: Navigation -- 10: SportsStore: Cart -- 11: SportsStore: Administration -- 12: SportsStore: Security & Deployment -- 13: SportsStore: Working with Visual Studio Code -- 14: Configuring Applications -- 15: URL Routing -- 16: Advanced Routing Features -- 17: Controllers and Actions -- 18: Dependency Injection -- 19: Filters -- 20: API Controllers -- 21: Views -- 22: View Components -- 23: Tag Helpers -- 24: Using the Form Tag Helpers -- 25: Using Other Built-in Tag Helpers -- 26: Model Binding -- 27: Model Validation -- 28: Identity -- 29: Applying Identity -- 30: Advanced Identity -- 31: Constraints and Conventions.
Visual Studio 2017 updates for this book are now available. Follow the Download Source Code link for this book on the Apress website. Now in its 6th edition, the best selling book on MVC is now updated for ASP.NET Core MVC. It contains detailed explanations of the new Core MVC functionality which enables developers to produce leaner, cloud optimized and mobile-ready applications for the .NET platform. This book puts ASP.NET Core MVC into context and dives deep into the tools and techniques required to build modern, cloud optimized extensible web applications. All the new MVC features are described in detail and the author explains how best to apply them to both new and existing projects. The ASP.NET Core MVC Framework is the latest evolution of Microsoft’s ASP.NET web platform, built on a completely new foundation. It represents a fundamental change to how Microsoft constructs and deploys web frameworks and is free of the legacy of earlier technologies such as Web Forms. ASP.NET Core MVC provides a "host agnostic" framework and a high-productivity programming model that promotes cleaner code architecture, test-driven development, and powerful extensibility. Best-selling author Adam Freeman has thoroughly revised this market-leading book and explains how to get the most from ASP.NET Core MVC. He starts with the nuts-and-bolts and shows you everything through to advanced features, going in-depth to give you the knowledge you need. This book follows the same format and style as the popular previous editions but brings everything up to date for the new ASP.NET Core MVC release. It presents a fully worked case study of a functioning ASP.NET MVC application that readers can use as a template for their own projects. What You Will Learn: Gain a solid architectural understanding of ASP.NET Core MVC Explore the entire ASP.NET MVC Framework as a cohesive whole See how MVC and test-driven development work in action Learn what's new in ASP.NET Core MVC and how best to apply these new features to your own work See how to create RESTful web services and Single Page Applications Build on your existing knowledge of previous MVC releases to get up and running with the new programming model quickly and effectively Who This Book Is For: This book is for web developers with a basic knowledge of ASP.NET and C# who want to incorporate the latest improvements and functionality in the new ASP.NET Core MVC Framework.
