Creating psychologically healthy workplaces
Workplaces can often be sources of stress, interfering with both job satisfaction and performance. This book explores ways to combat the factors contributing to an unhealthy workplace by building on the advances in positive psychology and organizational scholarship over the last 15 years. Focusing on ground-breaking concepts such as psychological capital, 'happiness compassion', virtuousness, support and gratitude, this book offers ways to target and reshape the unhealthy workplace environment. Each chapter provides real-life organizational situations in which companies of all sizes implement strategies that either hinder or successfully create a healthy workplace environment. The world-leading authors identify key causes that reduce employee satisfaction and job performance, offering a range of interventions that can prevent negative experiences to ultimately produce happier workforces and boost productivity. This book will be a vital reference for doctoral students studying the links between work and health as well as faculty studying ways to improve employee well-being. Those on advanced courses in human resource management, organization effectiveness and organizational change will also benefit from the vast array of international insights into a healthy workplace environment
Contents: Acknowledgements -- Part I: Introduction -- 1. Creating psychologically healthy workplaces / Ronald J. Burke -- 2. Pseudoscience won't create a psychologically healthy workplace / Matthew J. Grawitch and David W. Ballard -- 3. Setting the agenda for evidence-based and sustainable psychologically healthy workplaces / Arla Day -- 4. Shared values for health, safety and wellbeing at work / Gerard I. J. M. Zwetsloot -- Part II: Building individual resources. -- 5. The benefits of developing psychological capital in workplaces / Carolyn Youssef-Morgan and Karl Petersen -- 6. Nonwork time as individual resource building: A review and research agenda / Charlotte Fritz and Caitlin A. Demsky -- 7. Job crafting: An individual strategy to develop oneself / Maria Tims and Caroline Knight -- Chapter 8. Promoting happiness in the workplace / Kristin Layous -- Part III: Improving relationships inside and outside the workplace -- 9. The role and importance of leadership in creating psychologically healthy workplaces / Duygu B. Gulseren, Tabatha Thibault and E. Kevin Kelloway -- 10. Where differences dwell: Inclusion and the healthy workplace / Laura E. M. Traavik -- 11. Costs of incivility in workplaces and potential remedies / Michael P. Leiter -- 12. Sweet dreams (are made of this): Cultivating relational agency through high-quality connections in the workplace / Joanne Sundet and Arne Carlsen -- 13. Generational identity in the workplace: Toward understanding and empathy / Sean T. Lyons and Joshua Leblanc -- Part IV: Organizational-level initiatives -- 14. How thriving at work matters for creating psychologically healthy workplaces: Current perspectives and implications for the new world of work / Gretchen Spreitzer and Eun Bit Hwang -- 15. Work engagement: Increasing employee wellbeing and organizational effectiveness / Astrid M. Richardsen -- 16. Holistic stress: Primary, secondary, and tertiary interventions / Kahla A. Davis and Valerie J. Morganson -- 17. Positive people make for healthy workplaces / Paul Fairlie -- 18. Work-life balance, stress and well-being: Moderating effects of psychological capital / Carolyn M. Youssef-Morgan and Lanell Craig -- 19. Cultivating healthy, inclusive workplaces: Why it matters and how organizations make progress / Dnika J. Travis, Julie S. Nugent and Rebecca Lengnick-Hall -- 20. The importance of corporate wellness programs for psychological health and productivity in the workplace / Rebecca K. Kelly and Sheri Snow -- 21. Supporting employees with caregiving responsibilities / Clarissa Bohlmann and Hannes Zacher -- 22. Oh my aching back: Making workplaces senior-friendly / Deborah M. McPhee and Marcia Carvalho de Azevedo -- 23. Quality of employment and well-being: Updating our understanding and insights / Marcie Pitt-Catsouphes and Tay K. McNamara -- Index.
