The Oxford handbook of the neurobiology of pain
"This volume covers all aspects of pain research, starting with a history of pain and moving through invertebrate model systems, the human genetics of pain, and functional imaging. Chapters include the role of ion channels, the opioid system, the immune and sympathetic systems, as well as the mechanisms that transform acute to chronic pain. Migraine and the interplay between sleep and pain are discussed. New technology in the form of transgenic animals, chemogenetics, optogenetics, and proteomic analyses are also covered"--
A history of pain research / Fernando Cervero and John N. Wood -- The measurement of pain in the laboratory rodent / Jeffrey S. Mogil -- Invertebrate models of nociception : learning from flies and worms / Daniel Hesselson, Denise S. Walker, Joshua Neil Massingham, William R. Schafer, G. Gregory Neely, and Yee Lian Chew -- Human genetics of pain / James J. Cox, Ingo Kurth, and C. Geoffrey Woods -- Dorsal root ganglion neuron types and their functional specialization / Edward C. Emery and Patrik Ernfors -- The sympathetic nervous system and pain / Judith A. Strong, Jun-Ming Zhang, and Hans-Georg Schaible -- Heat pain and cold pain / Felix Viana and Thomas Voets -- Noxious mechanosensation / Patrick Delmas, Sergiy Mikhailovych Korogod, and Bertrand Coste -- Sodium channels and pain / Theodore R. Cummins, Stephen G. Waxman, and John N. Wood -- Potassium channels and pain / Jérôme Busserolles, Xavier Gasull, and Jacques Noël -- Voltage gated calcium channels : molecular targets for treating chronic pain / Gerald W. Zamponi, Maria A. Gandini, and Terry P. Snutch -- Chloride channels in nociceptors / Uhtaek Oh and Jooyoung Jung -- Neuroimmune interactions and pain / Jiahe Li and Peter M. Grace -- The neurobiology of pain : development and sex / Maria Fitzgerald and Michael W. Salter -- Central nervous system pain pathways / Andrew J. Todd and Fan Wang -- Dorsal horn pain mechanisms / Hanns Ulrich Zeilhofer and Robert Ganley -- Visceral pain / David C. Bulmer and Carolina Roza -- fMRI and human pain perception / Giandomenico Iannetti and A. Vania Apkarian -- Neurobiological basis of migraine / Philip R. Holland, Jan Hoffmann, and Peter J. Goadsby -- Effect of sleep loss on pain / Chloe Alexandre, Alban Latremoliere, and Patrick H. Finan -- Sensory signaling pathways in inflammatory and neuropathic pain / Hanneke L.D.M. Willemen and Niels Eijkelkamp -- The diversity of neuropathic pain / Nanna Brix Finnerup and Nadine Attal -- The transition from acute to chronic pain / Wei-Hsin Sun, Yu-Shiuan Su, and Chih-Cheng Chen -- Cancer and pain / Rie Bager Hansen and Sarah Falk -- Opioids and pain / Christoph Stein and Claire Gaveriaux-Ruff -- Neurotrophins, cytokines, and pain / Shafaq Sikandar and Claudia Sommer -- Chemo- and optogenetic strategies for the elucidation of pain pathways / Sascha R.A. Alles, Anne-Marie Malfait, and Richard J. Miller -- Autoantibodies and neuropathic pain / John M. Dawes and David L. Bennett -- The proteomics and metabolomics of pain : opportunities for systems medicine / David Gomez-Varela and Manuela Schmidt.
