Women's America : refocusing the past
INTRODUCTION: Gender and the new women's history / Jane Sherron De Hart and Linda K. Kerber -- I. TRADITIONAL AMERICA, 1600-1820 : Creating a blended household: Christian Indian women and English domestic life in Colonial Massachusetts /Ann Marie Plane -- "This evil extends especially...to the feminine sex": Negotiating captivity in the New Mexico borderlands / James F. Brooks -- The ways of her household / Laurel Thatcher Ulrich -- Document: The law of domestic relations: Marriage, divorce, dower -- African American women in colonial society / Carol Berkin -- Documents: The law of slavery -- "Searchers again assembled": Gender distinctions in seventeenth-century America / Mary Beth Norton -- Document: The trial of Anne Hutchinson, 1637 -- The devil in the shape of a woman: The economic basis of witchcraft /  Carol F. Karlsen -- Taking the trade: abortion and gender relations in an eighteenth-century New England village / Cornelia Hughes Dayton -- Documents: Supporting the Revolution -- The republican mother and the woman citizen: contradictions and choices in Revolutionary America / Linda K. Kerber. -- II. THE MANY FRONTIERS OF INDUSTRIALIZING AMERICA, 1820-1900 : Documents: The testimony of slave women -- Lines of color, sex, and service: sexual coercion in the early republic / Sharon Block -- Women's work: the gender division of labor in yeoman households of South Carolina before the Civil War / Stephanie McCurry -- The pastoralization of housework / Jeanne Boydston -- Document: Working conditions in early factories, 1845 -- The female world of love and ritual: relations between women in nineteenth-century America / Carroll Smith-Rosenberg -- Abortion in America / James C. Mohr -- Documents: Claiming rights I -- The Seneca Falls women's rights convention: a study of social networks / Judith Wellman -- Documents: Claiming rights II -- Sojourner Truth's defense of the rights of women / Nell Irvin Painter -- Enemies in our households: Confederate women and slavery / Drew Gilpin Faust -- Documents: Counterfeit freedom -- Reconstruction and the meanings of freedom / Tera W. Hunter -- Documents: After the Civil War: reconsidering the law -- Reading Little Women: the many lives of a text / Barbara Sicherman -- Document: The women's centennial agenda, 1876 -- Ida B. Wells and Southern Horrors / Patricia A. Schechter -- Ophelia Paquet, a Tillamook Indian wife: miscegenation laws and the privileges of property / Peggy Pascoe -- Documents: Claiming an education -- Forging interracial links in the Jim Crow South / Glenda Gilmore --
III. CREATING THE STATE IN AN INDUSTRIALIZED NATION, 1900-1945 : Rape and the inner lives of Black women / Darlene Clark Hine -- Unbound feet: from China to San Francisco's Chinatown / Judy Yung -- From the Russian pale to labor organizing in New York City / Annalise Orleck -- Florence Kelley and women's activism in the Progressive Era / Kathryn Kish Sklar -- Documents: Protecting women wage-workers -- Orphans and ethnic division in Arizona: the Mexican mothers and the Mexican town / Linda Gordon -- The next generation of suffragists: Harriot Stanton Blatch and grassroots politics / Ellen Carol DuBois -- Documents: Dimensions of citizenship I -- Equal rights and economic roles: the conflict over the Equal Rights Amendment in the 1920s / Nancy F. Cott -- Fasting girls: the emerging ideal of slenderness in American culture / Joan Jacobs Brumberg -- The "Industrial Revolution" in the home: household technology and social change in the twentieth century / Ruth Schwartz Cowan -- Disorderly women: gender and labor militancy in the Appalachian South / Jacquelyn Dowd Hall -- When abortion was a crime: reproduction and the economy in the Great Depression / Leslie J. Reagan -- Harder times: the Great Depression / Jacqueline Jones -- Document: Struggling to unionize -- Designing women and old fools: writing gender into social security law / Alice Kessler-Harris -- Storms on every front: Eleanor Roosevelt and human rights in Europe / Blanche Wiesen Cook -- Life interrupted: a young refugee arrives in America / Gerda Lerner -- Japanese American women during World War II / Valerie Matsumoto -- Gender at work: the sexual division of labor during World War II / Ruth Milkman -- IV. STRUGGLES AGAINST INJUSTICE, 1945-2000 : Betty Friedan and the origins of feminism in cold war America / Daniel Horowitz -- Neighborhood women and grassroots human rights / Gerda Lerner -- Miriam Van Waters and the burning of letters / Estelle Freedman -- "Mannishness," lesbianism, and homophobia in U.S. women's sports / Susan K. Cahn -- Ladies' day at the Capitol: women strike for peace versus HUAC / Amy Swerdlow -- A woman's war: African American women in the Civil Rights Movement / Charles Payne -- Documents: Dimensions of citizenship II -- A human right to welfare? social protest among women welfare recipients after World War II / Felicia Kornbluh -- Prescribing the pill: the coming of the sexual revolution in America's heartland / Beth L. Bailey -- Why the Shirelles mattered: girl groups on the cusp of a feminist awakening / Susan J. Douglas -- Documents: Making the personal political -- Second-wave feminists and the dynamics of social change / Jane Sherron De Hart -- Documents: Dimensions of citizenship III: Equal Rights Amendment, 1972 -- Documents: Dimensions of citizenship IV -- Women in the Gulf War / Linda Bird Francke -- Documents: The changing workplace -- "Material Girl": Madonna as postmodern heroine / Susan Bordo -- Documents: Rethinking marriage in the late twentieth century -- Sexual harassment on trial: The Anita Hill/Clarence Thomas narrative(s) / Robin Tolmach Lakoff -- Inscriptions of poverty on the female body in the era of welfare reform / Vivyan C. Adair -- Sweatshops here and there: the garment industry, Latinas, and labor migrations / Carmen Teresa Whalen -- Thirty years after Roe: the continued assault on a woman's right to choose / Jane Sherron De Hart and Carolyn Herbst Lewis -- Women and global citizenship / Sara Evans
