Physics teaching and learning : challenging the paradigm
"Physics Teaching and Learning: Challenging the Paradigm, RISE Volume 8, focuses on research contributions challenging the basic assumptions, ways of thinking, and practices commonly accepted in physics education. Teaching physics involves multifaceted, research-based, value added strategies designed to improve academic engagement and depth of learning. In this volume, researchers, teaching and curriculum reformers, and reform implementers discuss a range of important issues. The volume should be considered as a first step in thinking through what physics teaching and physics learning might address in teacher preparation programs, in-service professional development programs, and in classrooms throughout the U.S.A"--
High school physics teaching reform : support for professional development in the literature / Cynthia S. Sunal, Dennis W. Sunal, Justina Ogodo, and Marilyn Stephens -- Effects of professional development on reform in high school physics teaching / Dennis W. Sunal, Marsha E. Simon, Cynthia S. Sunal, Justina Ogodo, James W. Harrell, and Mohan Aggarwal -- Destabilizing the status quo in STEM professional development with modeling instruction / Kathleen A. Harper, Ted M. Clark, and Lin Ding -- Co-constructing models through whole class discussions in high school physics / Grant Williams and John Clement -- Extending the boundaries of high-school physics : introducing computational modeling of complex systems / Elon Langbeheim, Haim Edri, Nava Schulmann, Samuel Safran, and Edit Yerushalmi -- Personification of particles in middle school students' explanations of gas pressure / Robert C. Wallon and David E. Brown -- Compromised physics teaching : assessment driven eaching / Isaac Buabeng, Lindsey Conner, and David Winter -- Collaborative learning with networked simulations / Lisa Hardy and Tobin White -- Design, implementation and evaluation of a research-informed teaching sequence about energy / Dora Orfanidou and John Leach.
