Foundational aspects of family-school partnership research
Foundational aspects of family-school connections : definitions, conceptual frameworks, and research needs -- Core components of family-school connections : toward a model of need satisfying partnerships -- Diverse perspectives of parents, diverse concepts of parent involvement and participation : what can they suggest to researchers? -- Measuring parents' involvement in children's education -- Capturing family-school partnership constructs over time : creating developmental measurement models -- Family-school partnerships in a context of urgent engagement : rethinking models, measurement, and meaningfulness.
This volume focuses on how family-school partnerships are conceptualized, defined, and operationalized as well as the research that is needed to advance these foundational issues. Each chapter integrates prevailing approaches into a research-based framework for supporting learning from pre-K through high school. The book incorporates structural and relational methods into the larger context of educational processes to promote research about collaboration and to improve the academic and behavioral development of students. Diverse theories and models of family-school alliances demonstrate approaches and interventions that are goal-directed and strengths-based, respectful and responsive. In addition, the book analyzes cognitive, behavioral, and interpersonal aspects of partnership and discusses different methods of assessing parental involvement and student outcomes. Included in the coverage are innovative, agenda-setting discussions on: Definitions and conceptual frameworks of family-school partnerships. Need-satisfying partnerships. Diverse parent perspectives and participation. Measurement of family-school partnership constructs over time. Foundational Aspects of Family-School Partnership Research is an essential resource for researchers, professionals, and graduate students in child and school psychology, educational policy and politics, family studies, developmental psychology, sociology of education, sociology, and anthropology
