The handbook of globalisation
The past 30 years are often depicted as an era of globalisation, and even more so with the recent rise of global giants such as Google and Amazon. This updated and revised edition of The Handbook of Globalisation offers novel insights into the rapid changes our world is facing, and how best we can handle them. With multi-disciplinary contributions from leading experts, this Handbook covers a broad spectrum of issues and opportunities surrounding modern globalisation. It explores the idea that globalisation is not new, natural or inevitable, but rather that current global arrangements are the result of corporate pressure and the choices of politicians. It highlights the fact that the deregulated, free market form of globalisation is not unavoidable and explores a new era of global co-operation based around a Green New Deal. It also considers the future of globalisation in the face of the Trump presidency, Brexit and the move towards more state-centred policies. This Handbook continues to be a vital resource for scholars, students and researchers of economics, international relations, and business and management who wish to gain a more in-depth understanding of globalisation from a variety of different disciplines. Politicians and policy makers will also benefit from the advice offered to avoid some of the increasingly negative impacts of our globalising world
Contents: The handbook of globalisation: introduction and overview / Jonathan Michie -- Part I: Globalisation in Question? -- 1. The future of globalisation / Paul Hirst and Grahame Thompson -- 2. Financial globalization?: history, conditions and prospects / Grahame Thompson -- 3. The scope and implications of globalisation / Jonathan Perraton -- 4. Measures of globalisation and their misinterpretation / Bob Sutcliffe and Andrew Glyn -- Part II: Analysing The global economy -- 5. Innovation and globalisation: a systems of innovation perspective / Jeremy Howells -- 6. The international debt crisis / Gary Dymski -- 7. The multiplicity of distributional outcomes across the world: diversities of fundamentals or countries getting the inequality they deserve? / José Gabriel Palma -- Part III: Transnational corporations -- 8. The role of transnational corporations in the globalisation process / Grazia Ietto-Gillies -- 9. The role and control of multinational corporations in the world economy / Gerald Epstein -- 10. Foreign direct investment and development from a gender perspective / Elissa Braunstein -- Part IV: Labour standards -- 11. The minimum wage in a global context / Peter Brosnan -- 12. Globalisation, labour standards and economic development / Ajit Singh and Ann Zammit -- 13. Global labor standards: their impact and implementation / James Heintz -- Part V: Europe and North America -- 14. Productivity and competition from a global point of view / Joseph Plasmans -- 15. European integration and the 'Euro project' / Philip Arestis and Malcolm Sawyer -- 16. North American free trade: history, structure and prospects / Jim Stanford -- 17. The low road to competitive failure: immigrant labour and emigrant jobs in the US / Charles Craypo and Frank Wilkinson -- Part VI: Governance -- 18. Governance in a globalised world / Richard Woodward -- 19. Global governance / Mathias Koenig-Archibugi -- 20. The political economy of the third way: the relationship between globalisation and national economic policy / Simon Lee -- Part VII: International economic institutions -- 21. The WTO and its GATS / Scott Sinclair -- 22. The international monetary fund and the World Bank / John Toye -- 23. A new 'Bretton woods' system? / Mića Panić -- Part VIII: Policy implications and responses -- 24. Kicking away the ladder - globalisation and economic development in historical perspective / Ha-Joon Chang -- 25. Time to replace globalisation with localisation / Colin Hines -- 26. Free trade or social tariffs? / George DeMartino -- 27. Global inequality and the global financial crisis: the new transmission mechanism / Photis Lysandrou -- 28. The great crash of 2008 and the reform of economics / Geoffrey M. Hodgson -- Index.
