The Four Intelligences of the Business Mind : How to Rewire Your Brain and Your Business for Success
"I highly recommend that you look at your organization through the lens of The Four Intelligences of the Business Mind. If you do so, your business will improve in unexpected ways." -Mark Waldman, Executive MBA Faculty, Loyola Marymount University "The Four Intelligences of the Business Mind uses a revolutionary four-quadrant-based approach to teach you how to retrain your brain to optimize and transform your business. Valeh Nazemoff has written an excellent book with a commonsense approach and clear guidance." -Shaun Khalfan, Chief of Cyber Infrastructure, Department of the Navy A new pragmatic synthesis of organizational psychology, business analytics, and multiple intelligences theory, The Four Intelligences of the Business Mind lays out a scheme of four discrete but interlocking types of intelligence essential to business success. These intelligences are scalable and transferable from the individual leader to the organizational ecosystem. This short book teaches executives first to analyze and train their own brains in these four intelligences; then to transform their organizations by applying their sharpened quadruplex intelligence to their business analyses and decisions; and finally to train and incentivize their companies to map onto a collective organizational scale the mental transformation modeled by the "mastermind" leader. The four essential business intelligences identified by IT executive and organizational psychologist Valeh Nazemoff are financial intelligence, customer intelligence, data intelligence, and mastermind intelligence. Financial intelligence informs your ability to reinvest and regrow your business boldly but prudently in the light of predictive, risk, and business analytics. Customer intelligence informs your ability to rethink your approaches to attracting and keeping customers using customer, web, mobile, social, big data, and behavioral analytics. Data intelligence informs your ability to reinvent and recreate information in automated graphical representations to enable rapid decision-making using visual, cloud, web, and operational analytics, AI, and distance collaboration platforms. Finally, mastermind intelligence involves your ability through leadership and team exercises to impart to your employees and organization the same transformative honing and integration of business intelligences as you have undergone yourself. "Practical, relevant, insightful, engaging, and a pleasant read, The Four Intelligences of the Business ...
