ASP.NET MVC with Entity Framework and CSS
1. Building a Basic MVC Website -- 2. Creating Views, Controllers and a Database from Model Classes -- 3. Searching, Advanced Filtering and View Models -- 4. More Advanced Data Management -- 5. Sorting, Paging and Routing -- 6. Managing Product Images: Many-to-Many Relationships -- 7. Authentication and Authorization using ASP.NET Identity -- 8. Creating a Shopping Basket -- 9. Checkout - Creating and Viewing Orders -- 10. Advanced Scenarios and Common Workarounds -- 11. Using Entity Framework Code First with an Existing Database -- 12. Introduction to ASP.NET Core v1.0 (MVC 6 and EF 7) -- 13. Deploying to Azure -- 14. Restyling the Web Site: An Introduction -- 15. Styling the Home Page -- 16. Styling Forms, Grid Layouts and Tables -- 17. Advanced CSS -- 18. Responsive Web Sites: Styling for Mobile/Cell and Tablet Sized Devices.
Get up and running quickly with Microsoft ASP.NET MVC and Entity Framework as you build and deploy complex web sites. By using a fully working example retail web site you will learn solutions to real-world issues that developers frequently encounter. Whether you are a novice developer or an experienced .NET developer wishing to learn more about MVC and Entity Framework, author Lee Naylor will teach you how to develop a detailed database-driven example web site using Microsoft ASP.NET and Entity Framework Code First with fully explained code examples including: Filtering and searching related data using Linq Using Code First migrations to automatically update the database plus seeding data from code How to use Visual Studio Scaffolding views and controllers Managing CRUD operations, including model binding as recommended by Microsoft and correctly dealing with cascading deletions Input and data validation using attributes Sorting and paging through data and routing for friendly URL formats Authorization and authentication using Microsoft Identity v2 by making use of Microsoft example code, including the correct use of redirection after login and registration Advanced techniques, including managing data concurrency conflicts and using two database contexts Asynchronous database access and paging Azure deployment using Code First migrations, remote debugging, and viewing/editing your remote data CSS styling, including animation and media queries for use with tablet or mobile/cell phone devices.
