The Lamiaceae family : an overview
Chemical Composition, Bioactivity and Commercial Potential of Some Himalayan Lamiaceae Species / Chandra Shekhar Mathela and Rajendra Chandra Padalia -- Lamiaceae as a Source of Natural Antioxidants: Different Procedures for the Extraction of Polyphenolic Compounds from Origanum vulgare and O. heracleoticum / Vanja M. Tadić, Snežana Brašanac Vukanović, Ana Žugić, Vesna Pešić Vukašinović and Nada Blagojević -- Liposome Encapsulation of Origanum compactum Essential Oil as the Active Ingredient: Assuring the Drug Effect / Merima Ibišević, Vanja M. Tadić, Snežana Savić, Jelena Đoković and Ivana Nešić -- Impact of Green Synthesised Silver Nanoparticles on in Vitro-Grown Lavandula officinalis Plantlets / Pınar Nartop and Züleyha Günbeldek -- Variation of Secondary Metabolites in Lamiaceae Herbs Water Extracts / Hasib Ahmad and Yoichi Matsubara -- Homoploid Hybridization and Its Role in Emergence and Diversity of the Genus Origanum L. (Lamiaceae) / Tuncay Dirmenci, Turan Arabacı, Taner Özcan, Türker Yazıcı, Esra Martin, Sevcan Çelenk, Mikail Açar, Devrim Üzel -- Aromatic Species of the Lamiaceae Family from Ecuador / Eduardo Valarezo, Jandry Rosales, Nixon Cumbicus and Miguel Angel Meneses.
"The Lamiaceae Family: An Overview provides information on the ethnobotanical, chemical diversity, pharmacological activities and commercial importance of over 100 Himalayan Lamiaceae species belonging to Nepeta, Ocimum, Mentha, Elsholtzia, Ajuga, Origanum, Thymus, Hyssopus, Calamintha, Plectranthus, Coleus, Perilla, Pogostemon, Salvia, Stachys, Teucrium and Scutellaria. Next, the authors provide systematic and thorough information on the phenolic composition of two Origanum species extracts obtained using different solvents and/or methods shown to possess antioxidant properties that might be correlated to their traditionally established usage. In order to protect essential oils from degradation, to improve their stability and bioavailability, different methods of their encapsulation in various colloidal systems such as microcapsules, microspheres, nanoemulsions and liposomes are introduced. In addition, literature data revealed that the incorporation of synthetic as well as herbal drugs into phospholipids carriers such as liposomes tended to improve their efficacy. Following this, in vitro-grown plantlets of Lavandula officinalis were subjected to green-synthesized silver nanoparticles at 1, 2 and 4 mg/L concentrations. Growth parameters such as elongation, shoot and root formation and biomass accumulations are investigated to understand the effects of silver nanoparticles on micropropagation. Additionally, the variation of major secondary metabolites in water extracts of 13 different Lamiaceae herbs are investigated. After raising for 8 weeks in the greenhouse, the herbs were harvested and cryopreserved using liquid nitrogen. Afterward, sample extracts (20% w/v) were prepared from the leaf using ultrapure water and analyzed using UPLC-MS/MS. The authors presents some evidence about homoploid hybridization of Origanum genus put forward by Ietswaart. If habitat, ecological and geographic isolations occur between the hybrids and their parents, these hybrids can be speciated via homoploid hybridization in the future. In conclusion, an overview of aromatic species belonging to the family Lamiaceae is presented, and the chemical composition of the volatile fraction of these existing species in Ecuador is also reported"--
