Digital classical philology : ancient Greek and Latin in the digital revolution
Frontmatter -- Editor's Preface / Schüller-Zwierlein, André -- Preface / Crane, Gregory R. -- Contents -- Introduction -- Open Data of Greek and Latin Sources -- The Free First Thousand Years of Greek / Muellner, Leonard -- The Digital Latin Library: Cataloging and Publishing Critical Editions of Latin Texts / Huskey, Samuel J. -- Sustaining Linked Ancient World Data / Cayless, Hugh A. -- Cataloging and Citing Greek and Latin Authors and Works -- The Perseus Catalog: of FRBR, Finding Aids, Linked Data, and Open Greek and Latin / Babeu, Alison -- The CITE Architecture: a Conceptual and Practical Overview / Blackwell, Christopher W. / Smith, Neel -- The Canonical Text Services in Classics and Beyond / Tiepmar, Jochen / Heyer, Gerhard -- Data Entry, Collection, and Analysis for Classical Philology -- Optical Character Recognition for Classical Philology / Robertson, Bruce -- Character Encoding of Classical Languages / Tauber, James K. -- Building a Text Analysis Pipeline for Classical Languages / Burns, Patrick J. -- Intertextuality as Viral Phrases: Roses and Lilies / Coffee, Neil -- Critical Editing and Annotating Greek and Latin Sources -- Digital Classical Philology and the Critical Apparatus / Fischer, Franz -- eComparatio - a Software Tool for Automatic Text Comparison / Bräckel, Oliver / Kahl, Hannes / Meins, Friedrich / Schubert, Charlotte -- The Homer Multitext within the History of Access to Homeric Epic / Dué, Casey / Ebbott, Mary -- Historical Fragmentary Texts in the Digital Age / Berti, Monica -- Linguistic Annotation and Lexical Databases for Greek and Latin -- The Dependency Treebanks for Ancient Greek and Latin / Celano, Giuseppe G.A. -- The Project of the Index Thomisticus Treebank / Passarotti, Marco -- Semantic Analysis and Thematic Annotation / Boschetti, Federico -- Notes on Contributors -- Index
Thanks to the digital revolution, even a traditional discipline like philology has been enjoying a renaissance within academia and beyond. Decades of work have been producing groundbreaking results, raising new research questions and creating innovative educational resources. This book describes the rapidly developing state of the art of digital philology with a focus on Ancient Greek and Latin, the classical languages of Western culture. Contributions cover a wide range of topics about the accessibility and analysis of Greek and Latin sources. The discussion is organized in five sections concerning open data of Greek and Latin texts; catalogs and citations of authors and works; data entry, collection and analysis for classical philology; critical editions and annotations of sources; and finally linguistic annotations and lexical databases. As a whole, the volume provides a comprehensive outline of an emergent research field for a new generation of scholars and students, explaining what is reachable and analyzable that was not before in terms of technology and accessibility
