Gender, science and innovation : new perspectives
Contents: Foreword / by Sally Hardy -- 1. Introduction: Pipeline break / Henry Etzkowitz, Helen Lawton Smith, Colette Henry and Alexandra Poulovassilis -- Part I: Gender cultures and institutions -- 2. Being an early career academic: is there space for gender-equality in the neoliberal university? / Viviana Meschitti -- 3. Becoming a professor requires saying 'no': merging equality and quality agendas in a Norwegian gender balance project / Rebecca Lund -- 4. The National Science Foundation's advance programme: issues for senior compared to junior academic women scientists / Sue Rosser -- 5. Using the embedded case study approach to analyse the leaky pipeline phenomenon in academic careers / Silvia Cervia -- 6. Feminization of the medical profession / Rita Biancheri -- 7. Resistance to women in academic medicine / Laurel D. Edmunds -- Part II: Networking, mentoring and support -- 8. Networking, gender and academia: an ecosystems approach / Colette Henry, Helen Lawton Smith, Viviana Meschitti, Lene Foss and Pauric McGowan -- 9. Academic support for female entrepreneurs: the positive lasting effects of learning networks / Aisling O'Neill and Bill O'Gorman -- 10. Gender perspective in mentoring relationships: a case study of GENOVATE@UNINA / Ilenia Picardi and Maria Carmela Agodi -- 11. Gender and international collaborations in science and technology community building and policy agenda setting: an integrated analytical approach / Connie L. McNeely and Katie Seely-Gant -- Part III: Entrepreneurship, innovation, commercialization -- 12. Gender differences in the commercialisation of research: a study in UK universities / Helen Lawton Smith, Viviana Meschitti, Jeanne Le Roux, Mark Panton, Ning Baines, Alexandra Poulovassilis and Colette Henry -- 13. Unfolding the factors affecting female scientists' intentions in spin-off creation: a central European case study / S.ndor Huszár, Szabolcs Prónay and Norbert Buzàs -- 14. Gender diversity in R&D teams and its impact on firm openness / Lisa Messina, Gary Chapman and Nola Hewitt-Dundas -- 15. The entrepreneurial intention in female university students: an Italian case / Alessandra Micozzi and Francesca Micozzi -- 16. Gender, race and entrepreneurship in the United States / Cheryl B. Leggon -- 17. Trends and determinants of women in patenting in the United States / Sharmistha Bagchi-Sen and Peter Rogerson -- 18. AUTM women inventors committee: working to close the gender gap in university patenting / Kathleen Sohar, Forough Ghahramani, Jennifer Gottwald, Linda Kawano and Jennifer Shockro -- 19. Gender equity and equality: resistance and advance in academic science and innovation / Henry Etzkowitz, Carol Kemelgor and Leila Maria Kehl -- Index.
"This timely book brings together expert scholarly contributions based on individual and institutional experiences of gender inequality in Europe and the USA. Featuring key empirical insights, contributors explore the ways in which gender produces differences in opportunities across STEM subjects in universities. Leading authors in the field investigate and propose strategies to improve gender equality in academic environments by focusing on how to overcome indifference, cultural resistance and backlash. This book not only demonstrates the reality of women's networking experiences in STEM in different geographical and institutional contexts but provides evidence of the effectiveness of specific measures introduced to combat inequality in science and innovation. Enlightening and provocative, this book introduces key insights and critical questions for researchers of gender inequality in science and innovation. This book will also be vital for researchers and students of entrepreneurship as the need for a firm interrogation of the causes and consequences of gender inequality in business grows"--
