Communicative capacity : public encounters in participatory theory and practice
One. Introduction: communicating in participatory practicePublic encounters in participatory democracy -- Plan of the book -- Two. Public encounters in participatory democracy: towards communicative capacity -- Participatory democracy: from democratic political theory to practice -- Public encounters: the in-between of public professionals and citizens -- Communicative capacity: theory and practice -- Summary -- Three. Studying narratives of participatory practice -- How public encounters in practice can illuminate theory -- Narrative analysis: examining what happens in-between -- Grounded theory: dialogical analysis of practice -- Final remarks -- Four. Communicative patterns: what happens when public professionals and citizens meet -- Glasgow: making it work -- Amsterdam: being in touch -- Bologna: canalising -- Summary and implications: communicative patterns and capacity -- Five. Work in progress: engaging with the situation -- Glasgow: starting from scratch -- Amsterdam: getting to grips -- Bologna: breaking new ground -- Summary and implications: communicative capacity and work in progress -- Six. Struggling: discussing the substantive issues at hand -- Glasgow: taking a stance -- Amsterdam: under the skin -- Bologna: nuts and bolts -- Summary and implications: communicative capacity and struggling -- Seven. Making connections: building and maintaining relationships -- Glasgow: converting each other -- Amsterdam: approaching each other -- Bologna: keeping distance -- Summary and implications: communicative capacity and making connections -- Eight. Conclusion: communicative capacity In participatory theory and practice -- Public encounters in participatory theory and practice -- Theory and practice of communicative capacity -- Implications for participatory theory -- Nine. Recommendations: communicative capacity in practice and policy -- Communicative capacity in practice -- Policy for communicative capacity -- Learning and change.
