The Biml Book : Business Intelligence and Data Warehouse Automation
Foreword -- Introduction.-.- Part I: Learning Biml.- 1. Biml Tools -- 2. Introduction to the Biml Language -- 3. Basic Staging Operations  -- 4. Importing Metadata -- 5. Reusing Code, Helper Classes, and Methods.-.-Part II: Biml Frameworks -- 6. A Custom Biml Framework -- 7. Using Biml as an SSIS Design Patterns Engine -- 8. Integration with Custom SSIS Execution Framework -- 9. Metadata Automation -- 10. Advanced Biml Frameworks and BimlFlex.-.- Part III: Biml Topics.- 11. Biml and Analysis Services -- 12. Biml for T-SQL and other little helpers -- 13. Documenting Your Biml Solution -- 14. Troubleshooting Metadata -- 15. Troubleshooting Biml.-.- Part IV: Appendices -- 16. A. Source Control -- 17. B. Parallel Load Patterns in Biml -- 18. C. Metadata Persistence
Learn Business Intelligence Markup Language (Biml) for automating much of the repetitive, manual labor involved in data integration. We teach you how to build frameworks and use advanced Biml features to get more out of SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), Transact-SQL (T-SQL), and SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS) than you ever thought possible. The first part of the book starts with the basics-getting your development environment configured, Biml syntax, and scripting essentials. Whether a beginner or a seasoned Biml expert, the next part of the book guides you through the process of using Biml to build a framework that captures both your design patterns and execution management. Design patterns are reusable code blocks that standardize the approach you use to perform certain types of data integration, logging, and other key data functions. Design patterns solve common problems encountered when developing data integration solutions. Because you do not have to build the code from scratch each time, design patterns improve your efficiency as a Biml developer. In addition to leveraging design patterns in your framework, you will learn how to build a robust metadata store and how to package your framework into Biml bundles for deployment within your enterprise. In the last part of the book, we teach you more advanced Biml features and capabilities, such as SSAS development, T-SQL recipes, documentation autogeneration, and Biml troubleshooting. What You'll Learn: Master the basics of Business Intelligence Markup Language (Biml) Study patterns for automating SSIS package generation Build a Biml Framework Import and transform database schemas Automate generation of scripts and projects
