Functional foods and biotechnology : biotransformation and analysis of functional foods and ingredients
"The second book of the Food Biotechnology series, Functional Foods and Biotechnology: Biotransformation and Analysis of Functional Foods and Ingredients highlights two important and interrelated themes: biotransformation innovations and novel bio-based analytical tools for understanding and advancing functional foods and food ingredients for health-focused food and nutritional security solutions. The first section of this book provides novel examples of innovative biotransformation strategies based on ecological, biochemical, and metabolic rationale to target the improvement of human health relevant benefits of functional foods and food ingredients. The second section of the book focuses on novel host response based analytical tools and screening strategies to investigate and validate the human health and food safety relevant benefits of functional foods and food ingredients. Food biotechnology experts from around the world have contributed to this book to advance knowledge on bio-based innovations to improve wider health-focused applications of functional food and food ingredients, especially targeting non-communicable chronic disease (NCD) and food safety relevant solution strategies. Key Features: Provides system science-based food biotechnology innovations to design and advance functional foods and food ingredients for solutions to emerging global food and nutritional insecurity coupled public health challenges. Discusses biotransformation innovations to improve human health relevant nutritional qualities of functional foods and food ingredients. Includes novel host response-based food analytical models to optimize and improve wider health-focused application of functional foods and food ingredients. The overarching theme of this second book is to advance the knowledge on metabolically-driven food system innovations that can be targeted to enhance human health and food safety relevant nutritional qualities and antimicrobial properties of functional food and food ingredients. The examples of biotransformation innovations and food analytical models provide critical insights on current advances in food biotechnology to target, design and improve functional food and food ingredients with specific human health benefits. Such improved understanding will help to design more ecologically and metabolically relevant functional food and food ingredients across diverse global communities. The thematic structure of this second book is built from the related initia ...
