Strategic Decision Making : Applying the Analytic Hierarchy Process
Strategic Decision-Making and the AHP -- Strategic Decision-Making -- The Analytic Hierarchy Process -- Strategic Decision-Making in Business -- Aligning Strategic initiatives with Enterprise Vision -- Evaluating Technology Proliferation at Global Level -- Evaluating Enterprise-wide Wireless Adoption Strategies -- Software Vendor Evaluation and Package Selection -- Estimating the Software Application Development Effort at the Proposal Stage -- Strategic Decision-Making in Defense and Governance -- Prioritising National Security Requirements -- Managing Crisis and Disaster -- Weapon Systems Acquisition for Defense Forces -- Evaluating the Revolution in Military Affairs (RMA) Index of Armed Forces -- Transition to Nuclear War.
Problems with high stakes, involving human perceptions and judgements, and whose resolutions have long-term repercussions, call for a rational approach to their solution. Strategic Decision Making provides an effective, formal methodology that gives assistance to such strategic level decision making problems. Focusing on applying the AHP to decision-making problems in engineering, Strategic Decision Making explores the three main endeavours of human existence: business, defence and governance. Many years of successfully applying Strategic Decision Making in these domains have created extensive results covering many complex planning, resource, allocation and priority setting problems throughout industry and business. Case studies drawn from years of successful, practical application experience. Discusses applications of decision making for real life problems. Worked examples and solutions to problems throughout. The reader will gain comprehensive exposure to the extent of assistance that a formal methodology, such as AHP, can provide to the decision maker in evolving decisions in complex and varied domains. Decision makers, in business and industry around the world, will find this valuable for practical use as a working tool.
