Reconciling environment and trade
The volume focuses on five cases, all of which remain cornerstone trade-environment cases of the WTO. The subject matter of these cases reflects five basic issues in the clash between trade and the environment: public health, air pollution/ozone depletion, food safety, destruction of endangered species, and biosafety. These five issues surface dramatically in international disputes over tobacco, reformulated gasoline, beef growth hormones, commercial fishing methods, and genetically modified organisms. In the second edition of this book, Nathalie Bernasconi-Osterwalder joins the original editors to update and contextualize the five case studies in new introductions to each section. These introductions provide an overview of developments since the first edition, including subsequent related cases. The second edition also includes updated bibliographic materials. In their penetrating analyses of these cases and their vast implications, the authors take into account the entire disciplines of both trade law and environmental law, noting especially the points of friction between the multilateral instruments in each field and the developing jurisprudence of the WTO Dispute Settlement with regard to the exceptions specified in Article XX of the GATT. The articulated standpoints of all partiesgovernments and NGOs on both sides of the controversyare probed for agendas, whether stated or unstated. No one involved in international trade or environmental activism can afford to ignore this vital publication. The information it provides (on WTO jurisprudence, on current and pending environmental initiatives, on the science behind the disputes), no less than the fresh and convincing analysis it holds forth, make it an essential tool for understanding some of the most crucial issues in international law today
Preliminary Material /E. Brown Weiss , J.H. Jackson and N. Bernasconi-Osterwalder -- Chapter 1. The Framework For Environment And Trade Disputes /Edith Brown W Eiss and John H. Jackson -- Introductory Note. Public Health And The Environment: The Case Of Tobacco Control /E. Brown Weiss , J.H. Jackson and N. Bernasconi-Osterwalder -- Chapter 2. The Thai Cigarettes Case: A Current Critique /Young Duk Park -- Chapter 3. Evolution Of The \'Necessary Test\' Of Article XX(B): From Thai Cigarettes To The Present /Patricio Leyton -- Chapter 4. Taxation To Control Tobacco In Developing States /Kristyn Noeth -- Chapter 5. The Who Framework Convention On Tobacco Control And Trade-Related Protocols /Benjamin C. Adams -- Bibliography Relating To Tobacco Control And The Thai Cigarette Case /E. Brown Weiss , J.H. Jackson and N. Bernasconi-Osterwalder -- Introductory Note. Air Pollution: The Reformulated Gasoline Case /E. Brown Weiss , J.H. Jackson and N. Bernasconi-Osterwalder -- Chapter 6. Unsolved Problems And Implications For The Chapeau Of Gatt Article XX After The Reformulated Gasoline Case /Kenichiro Urakami -- Chapter 7. Reconciling U.S. Regulatory Procedure With The Wto Reformulated Gasoline Case /Christopher John Duncan -- Chapter 8. Characterizing Air As An Exhaustible Natural Resource /Victoria H. Imperiale -- Chapter 9. Conserving \'Exhaustible Natural Resources\': The Role Of Precedent In The Gatt Article XX(G) Exception /Lewis Briggs -- Bibliography Relating To The Reformulated Gasoline Case /E. Brown Weiss , J.H. Jackson and N. Bernasconi-Osterwalder -- Introductory Note. Food Safety: The Beef Hormones Case /E. Brown Weiss , J.H. Jackson and N. Bernasconi-Osterwalder -- Chapter 10. The European Union’S Position On Agriculture After The Wto Appellate Body’S Decision In Beef Hormones /Charles F. De Jager -- Chapter 11. Fine-Tuning Wto Jurisprudence And The Sps Agreement To Improve Trade Integration And Harmonization /Regine Neugebauer -- Chapter 12. Assessing The Standard Of Review For Trade-Restrictive Measures In The Sanitary And Phytosanitary Agreement /Christopher Bisgaard -- Chapter 13. Food Labeling: Free Trade, Consumer Choice, And Accountability /Katy Eiseman -- Bibliography Relating To Food Safety And The Beef Hormones Case /E. Brown Weiss , J.H. Jackson and N. Bernasconi-Osterwalder -- Introductory Note. Commercial Fishing And Endangered Species: The Shrimp-Turtle Case /E. Brown Weiss , J.H. Jackson and N. Bernasconi-Osterwalder -- Chapter 14. Complying With The Wto Shrimp-Turtle Decision /Renata Benedini -- Chapter 15. Unilateral Environmental Measures After The Wto Appellate Body’S Shrimp-Turtle Decision /Paul O’Brien -- Chapter 16. Considering The Biology Of The Sea Turtles In The Wto Dispute Settlement Process /Hannah Gillelan -- Chapter 17. Explaining U.S. Policy On Shrimp-Turtle: An International Business Diplomacy Analysis /Peter Chessick -- Chapter 18. Shrimp And Turtles: What About Environmental Embargoes Under Nafta? /Andres Rueda -- Bibliography Relating To The Shrimp-Turtle Case /E. Brown Weiss , J.H. Jackson and N. Bernasconi-Osterwalder -- Introductory Note. Environmental Risks And Biosafety: Genetically Modified Organisms — A Future Case /E. Brown Weiss , J.H. Jackson and N. Bernasconi-Osterwalder.
