War in an age of revolution, 1775 - 1815
Introduction: A tale of two tales : grand narratives of war in the age of revolution / Roger Chickering -- pt. 1. Perspectives on a military history of the revolutionary era -- What constituted the military revolution of the early modern period? / Azar Gat -- Guibert : prophet of total war? / Beatrice Heuser -- Innovation or evolution? : the French wars in military history / Ute Planert -- Reluctant reformers, observant disciples : the Prussian military reforms, 1807-1814 / Dierk Walter -- The first world war : global dimensions of warfare in the age of revolutions, 1775-1815 / Stig Förster -- "The most terrible world war" : Friedrich Gentz and the lessons of revolutionary war / Günther Kronenbitter -- pt. 2. The growing dimensions of battle -- The Native American way of war in the age of revolutions, 1754-1814 / Timothy J. Shannon -- The American militias : "the garnish of a table?" / Matthew C. Ward -- The logistics of revolutionary war in France / Alan Forrest -- Revolt and repression in Napoleonic Italy, 1796-1814 / Michael Broers -- Naval power in the revolutionary era / Jeremy Black -- Partisan warfare in Spain and total war / John Lawrence Tone -- pt. 3. Civil Institutions and the growing scope of war -- Where have all the people gone? : reflections on popular political mobilization on the eve of American independence / T.H. Breen -- Achilles' heel : slavery and war in the American Revolution / Jörg Nagler -- Revolutionary France and the meanings of levée en masse / Wolfgang Kruse -- Religion in a time of war : the case of lower Alsace, 1789-1794 / Donatus Düsterhaus -- The military and masculinity : gendering the history of the revolutionary and Napoleonic wars, 1792-1815 / Karen Hagemann -- A tale of two cities : Washington and Baltimore during the War of 1812 / Marion Breunig -- Lost neutrality and economic warfare  : Napoleonic warfare in northern Europe, 1795-1815 / Katharine Aalestad -- War and everyday life in Britain / Mary A. Favret
"This volume investigates a critical moment in the history of warfare. It assembles historians of the early modern and modern eras to speak to one another across the great historiographical divide that has traditionally separated them. The central questions in the volume have to do with the historical place of revolutionary warfare on both sides of the Atlantic--the degree to which they extended practices common in the eighteenth century or introduced fundamentally new forms of warfare. Among the topics covered in the volume are the global dimensions of warfare, logistics, universal military service and the mobilization of noncombatants, occupation, and the impact of war on civilian life in both Europe and North America"--Provided by publisher
