Psychotherapy, Literature and the Visual and Performing Arts
This book explores the relevance of literature and the performing and visual arts for effective clinical psychotherapy. There is a growing interest in the use of the arts in psychotherapy, in part due to an increasing awareness of the limitations in verbal communication and scepticism towards traditional forms of medical treatment. Gathering together perspectives from international practitioners this volume embraces the value of a range of mediums to psychotherapy, from film and photo-therapy to literature and narrative therapy. Based on theoretical studies, clinical expertise and experiential learning, authors offer detailed guidelines on the value of various art forms in practice
1. Introduction: Psychotherapy and the Arts: A Practitioner’s Guide; Bruce Kirkcaldy -- Part 1: Literature and narrative therapy -- 2. Edvard Munch as psychotherapist: a picture is worth a thousand words; Arnold Weinstein -- 3. Stories, Parables and Metaphors: Application in Langerian Mindfulness; Sayyed Mohsen Fatemi & Ellen Langer -- 4. Wounded Healers and the Impact of Literature, Drama and Film on Mental Health Treatment; Bruce Kirkcaldy & Ahmed Hankir -- 5. Film and Mental Health; Dinesh Bhugra, Antonio Ventriglio & Gurvinder Kalra -- Part 2: Theater and Dance Perspectives -- 6. A new theory of emotions and theatre; Jeff Zinn -- 7. Benefits of theatrical improvisation in the training of psychotherapists; Daniel J. Wiener -- 8. The Dance of Presence: Mindfulness and Movement; Shauna Shapiro & Sarah de Sousa -- Part 3: Visual Arts and Painting -- 9. Making Space: Experiences Developing a Contemplative Art Program to Introduce Mindfulness to Non-Meditators; Christine Korol & Kim Sogge -- 10. Substance abuse treatment: Therapeutic applications of art; Alexander-Stamatios Antoniou & Marina Dalla -- Part 4: Music and Performing Arts -- 11. Endeavours to quieten the “savage breast”: Therapeutic applications of music; Glenn Wilson -- 12. Psychological Oddities among Performing Artists; Vincent Egan, Tony Beech & Lawrence Burrow -- 13. Emotional Intelligence, Personality Disorders and the Performing Arts; Adrian Furnham
