University and society : interdependencies and exchange
What role can the university play in the broader community or society in which it is embedded? Must it remain segregated in the halls of science and knowledge, which tower above the community? This book examines the growing number of questions and concerns around university-community relations by exploring widely accepted theories and practices and placing them under new light. From a shared point of agreement that the university is an institution which should move beyond the production of higher knowledge for power elites, the contributors provide critical reflections and reports on efforts to bring about change in the canonic discourse or power-biased attitudes in universities throughout the Northern Hemisphere and Australia. The central message is that the strengthening of direct relations between universities and communities is vital to the construction of social capital and to the opening of universities to society. These are processes to be advanced on both local and international levels, as they involve democratizing rather than corporatizing, extending the reach of our educational process, sharing knowledge, resources, and expertise and reinforcing community decision-making and problem-solving capacity. How these processes of change develop and unfold within a number of universities in a wide range of countries is the story told in this book. This book will appeal to a wide readership, from students and community activists looking to make education meaningful and cooperative, to educational policy makers, members of the professoriate, and academic administrators, seeking to sustain withering institutions and provide vision for new program developments
Contents: Introductory thoughts / Ágnes Kövér and Gaby Franger -- Part I. Challenging academia -- 1. Universities "inside" the world: multiscale engagement levels / Maria José Casa-Nova -- 2. Leaving the ivory tower: universities' third mission and the quest for legitimacy / Michael Meyer and Barbara Sporn -- 3. University student volunteering for development: a critical approach / Nichole Georgeou and Benjamin Haas -- 4. Sentipensante: feeling-thinking-pedagogy: community-based research and teaching / Gaby Franger -- Part II: University as agent of dialogue -- 5. Dialogue and deliberation in a quiet place / Roger A. Lohmann -- 6. Acting together - means of creative transformation of social conflict / György Csepeli -- 7. Universities - Ngos interaction in Romania: a bridge too far away? / Nicolae Bibu and Mihai Lisetchi -- 8. Are we welcome? Building trust through community based research / Margot Rawsthorne and Alison De Pree -- Part III: Service learning and service provision -- 9. Clinical legal education: from loyalty to power to loyalty to society / Ágnes Kövér -- 10. Volunteering@Wu: implementing community service learning in Austria / Renate Buber, Ekaterina Ivanova, Stefanie Mackerle-Bixa, Michael Meyer and Paul Rameder -- 11. The community semester: enhancing town and gown relations in a medium-size city / John Murray -- 12. University of the third age / Gábor Hegyesi and Katalin Talyigás -- Part IV: Working within and for community -- 13. Shifting roles for campus-building in university-community relationships / Curt Winkle And David Perry -- 14. University residence Flora Tristán: A social project of experiences that breaks down walls / Juan Blanco López, M. Ana Almirón, Alfonso Blázquez, Angela Fernández, Maria Del Carmen Maguilla and Silvia De La Herran -- 15. The university as community developer / David Campbell and Dennis Pendleton -- 16. University and community: Jewish tradition and social justice / Zoltán Háberman -- 17. Crossroads repertory theatre: a model of a university-based theater / Arthur Feinsod -- Index.
