Pro PHP and jQuery
1. Introducing jQuery in PHP -- 2. Common jQuery Actions and Methods -- 3. Object-Oriented Programming -- 4. Build an Events Calendar -- 5. Add Controls to Create, Edit, and Delete Events -- 6. Password Protecting Sensitive Actions and Areas -- 7. Enhancing the User Interface with jQuery -- 8. Editing the Calendar with Ajax and jQuery -- 9. Performing Form Validation with Regular Expressions -- 10. Extending jQuery -- Appendix.
Take advantage of the improved performance and reduced memory requirements of PHP version 7, and learn to utilize the new built-in PHP functions and features such as typed variable enforcement with declare(strict_types=1) and the new available data types, scalar type declarations for function arguments and return statements, constant arrays using define(), argument unpacking with the ... operator, integer division with intdiv(), the null coalesce operator, the spaceship operator, new exception types, and improvements to existing features. Pro PHP and jQuery, Second Edition is for intermediate level programmers interested in building web applications using jQuery and PHP. Updated for PHP version 7 and the latest version of jQuery, this book teaches some advanced PHP techniques and it shows you how to take your dynamic applications to the next level by adding a JavaScript layer using the jQuery framework and APIs. After reading and using this book, you'll come away having built a fully functional PHP and jQuery web application that you can reapply as a template for your own particular web application. Pro PHP and jQuery, Second Edition is for intermediate level programmers interested in building web applications using jQuery and PHP. Updated for PHP version 7 and the latest version of jQuery, this book teaches some advanced PHP techniques and it shows you how to take your dynamic applications to the next level by adding a JavaScript layer using the jQuery framework and APIs, considered the most popular JavaScript libraries. After reading and using this book, you'll come away understanding a fully functional PHP using jQuery web application case study that you can reapply as a template for your own particular web application. Moreover, from PHP 7, you'll get uniform variable syntax, the AST-based compilation process, the added Closure::call(), bitwise shift consistency across platforms, the (null coalesce) operator, Unicode codepoint escape syntax, return type declarations, and new and easier extensions development with support for redis, MongoDB and much more. .
