Contemporary German crime fiction : a companion
A companion to contemporary German crime fiction for English-speaking audiences is overdue. Starting with the earlier Swiss "classics" Glauser and Dürrenmatt and including a number of important Austrian authors, such as Wolf Haas and Heinrich Steinfest, this volume will cover the essential writers, genres, and themes of crime fiction written in German. Where necessary and appropriate, crime fiction in media other than writing (TV-series, movies) will be included. Contemporary social and political developments, such as gender issues, life in a multicultural society, and the afterlife of German fascism today, play a crucial role in much of recent German crime fiction. A number of contributions to this volume will comment on the literary reflection of these issues in the texts. The goal of the volume is to make available to English-speaking audiences, to students, teachers and to a wider circle of interested readers, a series of articles on genres, topics, authors, and texts that will help them understand the scope and depth of German crime fiction, its ties to international traditions and also the specificity of the German context, its historical development and contemporary situation
Frontmatter -- Preface -- Contents -- 1. Introduction: German and International Crime Fiction / Kniesche, Thomas W. -- 2. The Beginnings of Swiss Detective Literature: Glauser and Dürrenmatt / Vilas-Boas, Gonçalo -- 3. Modernity and Melancholia: Austrian Crime Fiction / Kniesche, Thomas W. -- 4. The Soziokrimi or Neuer Deutscher Kriminalroman / Kniesche, Thomas W. -- 5. Regionalism and Modernism in Recent German Crime Fiction (1990-2015) / Vogt, Jochen -- 6. Female Empowerment: Women's Crime Fiction in German / Pailer, Gaby -- 7. Crime Fiction as Memory Discourse: Historical Crime Fiction from Germany / Kniesche, Thomas W. -- 8. The Legacy of the 'Third Reich': Reworking the Nazi Past in contemporary German Crime Fiction / Beck, Sandra -- 9. Blood, Sweat and Fears: Investigating the Other in Contemporary German Crime Fiction / Beck, Sandra -- 10. Crime Fiction and the Literary Field in Germany: An Overview / Wörtche, Thomas -- 11. Portal to the Humanities: Teaching German Crime Fiction in the American Academy / Donahue, William Collins / Vogt, Jochen -- 12. Contemporary German Crime Fiction Authors / Kniesche, Thomas W. / Wörtche, Thomas / Vogt, Jochen / Reimers, Kirsten / Moraldo, Sandro M. / Richter, Steffen / Erb, Andreas / Ridley, Hugh / Feldmann, Joachim -- Contemporary German Crime Fiction: A Bibliography -- Contributors -- Index
