Learning Without School : Home Education
This book explains what home education is; the advantages and disadvantages of this route; how to begin home educating; what you need to do and how to help your child adjust; and how home education affects children's social skills and friendships. It also covers technical aspects, such as the curriculum, core subjects, exams and timetables.
FRONT COVER -- Learning without School: Home Education -- Contents -- Introduction -- 1 What Is Home Education and Why Do People Do It? -- What is home education? -- Is it legal? -- Frequently asked questions and a few quick answers -- Why do people home educate? -- Why did we home educate? - A personal story -- The advantages of home education -- A brief word about friends -- The disadvantages -- What do you need to home educate? -- Summary of the main points -- Suggested websites -- 2 How Do Parents Start Home Educating? -- Considerations when making the decision to home educate -- The difference in deciding pre-school, or after the children have been in school -- The home education network and how to find support -- Deregistering children from school -- The role of the local education authority -- How home educators fulfil their obligations to the local authority -- Making the adjustment from school to home education -- Dealing with objections from others -- Having confidence in your knowledge of your child -- Summary of the main points -- Suggested websites -- 3 How Do Home Educated Children Learn? -- Our traditional view of how children learn -- A broader view of how children learn -- What children need, both personally and environmentally, in order to learn -- The most valuable learning aid: children's love of learning -- How children learn without teaching -- How children learn from everyday experiences -- The learning value of play -- The difference between skills and knowledge -- Home educators' different approaches and styles -- A tightly structured approach -- An autonomous approach -- An approach in between -- How to choose an approach -- The use of time -- Motivation -- Children having charge of their own learning -- Opportunities within the community for learning -- Summary of the main points -- Suggested websites.
