Hubble 15 Years of Discovery
BACK COVER COPY** This book forms part of the European Space Agency’s 15th anniversary celebration activities for the 1990 launch of the NASA/ESA Hubble Space Telescope. As an observatory in space, Hubble is one of the most successful scientific projects of all time, both in terms of scientific output and its immediate public appeal. Hubble creates an enormous impact by exploiting a unique scientific niche where no other instruments can compete. It consistently delivers super-sharp images and clean, uncontaminated spectra over the entire near-infrared and ultraviolet regions of the electromagnetic spectrum. This has opened up new scientific territory and resulted in many paradigm-breaking discoveries. Exquisite quality images have enabled astronomers to gain entirely new insights into the workings of a huge range of different astronomical objects. Hubble has provided the visual overview of the underlying astrophysical processes taking place in these objects, ranging from planets in our Solar System to galaxies in the young Universe. Astronomy is fortunate in that telescopes not only produce results of great scientific value, but also of eye-catching beauty and artistic potential. This book shows the close relationship between the two at its best. Hubble’s design remains unique amongst space-based observatories by enabling astronauts to regularly maintain and upgrade it during Space Shuttle Servicing Missions. These have not only kept the telescope at the forefront of scientific capability, but have transformed its performance to heights beyond the dreams of its original designers. FRONT INSIDE FLAP** About the Authors Lars Lindberg Christensen Lars is a science communication specialist heading the Hubble European Space Agency Information Centre group in Munich, Germany where he is responsible for public outreach and education for the NASA/ESA Hubble Space Telescope in Europe. Lars obtained his Master’s Degree in physics and astronomy from the University of Copenhagen, Denmark. Before assuming his current position, he spent a decade working as a science communicator and technical specialist for Tycho Brahe Planetarium in Copenhagen. Lars has more than 100 publications to his credit, most of them in popular science communication and its theory. His other productive interests lie in the areas of graphical communication, written communication, technical communication and scientific communication. He is the author of "The Hands-On Guide to Science Communi ...
The Hubble Story -- Hubble Up Close -- Planetary Tales -- The Lives of Stars -- Cosmic Collisions -- Monsters in Space -- Gravitational Illusions -- Birth and Death of the Universe -- Looking to the end of Time -- Hubble Gallery
