Translating worlds : migration, memory, and culture
"This international and interdisciplinary volume explores the relations between translation, migration, and memory. Examining the connections between translation, memory, and migration, the volume brings together humanities researchers from a range of disciplines including history, museum studies, memory studies, translation studies, and literary, cultural, and media studies. The innovatory perspective adopted by Translating Worlds understands translation's explanatory reach as extending beyond the comprehension of one language by another to encompass those complex and multi-layered processes of parsing by means of which the unfamiliar and the familiar, the old home and the new, are brought into conversation and connection. Themes discussed include: 路 How memories of lost homes act as aids or hindrances to homemaking in new worlds; 路 How cultural memories are translated in new cultural contexts; 路 Migration, affect, memory, and translation 路 Migration, language, and transcultural memory;  Migration, traumatic memory, and translation. This edited volume will appeal to humanities researchers and students interested in translation, history, memory studies, literary, cultural and media studies"--
1. The Lost Clock: Remembering and Translating Enigmatic Messages from Migrant Objects (Susannah Radstone) -- 2. Tactile Translations: Re-Locating the Northern Irish Disappeared (Alison Ribeiro de Menezes) -- 3. The Past in the Present: Life Narratives and Trauma in the Vietnamese Diaspora (Nathalie Huynh Chau Nguyen) -- 4. Beyond the Written: Embodying the Sensorial as an Act of Remembering (Grace Pundyk) -- 5. Having Left, Not Having Yet Arrived : Migrant Interiority, Translation, and Memory (Maria Tumarkin)  Section 2: Translating and Migrating Languages, Ideologies, and Identities -- 6. There Was a Woman, a Translator, Who Wanted to Be Another Person: Jhumpa Lahiri and the Exchange Politics of Linguistic Exile (Mridula Nath Chakraborty) -- 7. Foiba: Genealogy of an Untranslatable Word (Diego Lazzarich) -- 8. Translating Australia: Language, Migrant Education, and Television (Kyle Harvey and Kate Darian-Smith) -- 9. Can We Talk About Poland?: Intergenerational Translations of Home (Katarzyna Kwapisz Williams and Jacqueline Lo) -- 10. Changing Places: Translational Narratives of Migration, Cultural Memory, and Belonging (Rita Wilson)
