Re-imagining economic sociology
List of figures -- List of tables -- List of contributors. Introduction / Patrik Aspers, Nigel Dodd, and Ellinor Anderberg -- Theorizing in economic sociology / Richard Swedberg. Part 1 Creating economic futures : Re-imagining capitalist dynamics: fictional expectations and the openness of economic futures / Jens Beckert -- Utopianism and the future of money / Nigel Dodd -- What is a financial market? global markets as media-institutional forms / Karin Knorr Cetina. Part 2 Consolidating economic structures : Economy and law: old paradigms and new markets / Bruce G. Carruthers -- Economic institutions from networks / Victor Nee and Sonja Opper -- The fourth dimension of power: the social construction of interest in the new economic sociology / Frank Dobbin and Jiwook Jung -- Certifying the world: power infrastructures and practices in economies of conventional forms / Laurent Théenot. Part 3 Enacting economic relations : Thinking about social relations in economy as relational work / Nina Bandelj -- Phenomenological identity theory in economic sociology / Patrik Aspers -- The organizational gift and sociological approaches to exchange / Philippe Steiner. Concluding reflection : What kind of re-imagining does economic sociology need? / Neil Fligstein. Index
The purpose of this book is to explore new developments in the field of economic sociology. It contains cutting-edge theoretical discussions by some of the world's leading economic sociologists, with chapters on topics such as the economic convention, relational sociology, economic identity, economy and law, economic networks and institutions. The book is distinctive in a number of ways. First, it focuses on theoretical contributions, by pulling together and extending what the contributors believe to be the most important theoretical innovations within their own particular areas of the field. Second, there are contributions by leading economic sociologists from both the US and Europe, which gives the book both wider scope and appeal, while also creating the opportunity for some interesting dialog between distinct theoretical traditions
