The Cambridge handbook of Spanish linguistics
Machine generated contents note: Introduction Kimberly L. Geeslin; Part I. Theories and Approaches to Hispanic Linguistics: 1. Generative linguistics: syntax Paula Kempchinsky; 2. Optimality theory and Spanish/Hispanic linguistics D. Eric Holt; 3. Usage-based approaches to Spanish linguistics Esther Brown; 4. Functional-typological approaches to Hispanic linguistics Rosa Vallejos; 5. Psycholinguistic approaches to Hispanic linguistics Tania Leal and Christine Shea; 6. Corpus approaches to the study of language, variation and change Manuel Diaz-Campos and Juan Escalona Torres; Part II. The Spanish Sound System: 7. The Spanish vowel system Rebecca Ronquest; 8. Consonants Rebeka Campos-Astorkiza; 9. The Spanish syllable Alfonso Morales; 10. Prosody: stress, rhythm and intonation Pilar Prieto and Paolo Roseano; 11. Speech perception Amanda Boomershine and Ji Young Kim; Part III. Spanish Morphosyntax and Meaning: 12. Word phenomena in Spanish: category definition and word formation Antonio Fabregas; 13. Properties of pronominal subjects Pekka Posio; 14. Properties of verb phrase: argument structure, ellipsis and negation Ivan Ortega-Santos; 15. Properties of the extended verb phrase: agreement, the structure of INFL, and subjects in Spanish Julio Villa-Garcia; 16. Properties of nominal expressions M. Emma Ticio Quesada; 17. Information structure Laura Dominguez; 18. Syntax and its interfaces Timothy Gupton; 19. Lexis Grant Armstrong; 20. Pragmatics Maria Hasler-Barker; Part IV. Spanish in Social, Geographic and Historical Contexts: 21. Spanish in contact with other languages and bilingualism across the Spanish-speaking world Lotfi Sayahi; 22. Heritage speakers of Spanish Diego Pascual y Cabo; 23. Geographic varieties of Spanish Elena Fernandez de Molina Ortes and Juan M. Hernandez-Campoy; 24. Sociolinguistic approaches to dialectal, sociolectal, and idiolectal variation in the Hispanophone world Daniel Erker; 25. National and diasporic Spanish varieties as evidence of ethnic affiliations Almeida Jacqueline Toribio; 26. Current perspectives on historical linguistics Patricia Amaral; 27. Grammaticalization Chad Howe; Part V. The Acquisition of Spanish: 28. Child language acquisition Anna Gavarro; 29. Theories of second language learning Bill VanPatten; 30. The L2 acquisition of Spanish sounds Megan Solon; 31. The acquisition of L2 Spanish Morphosyntax Jason Rothman, Jorge Gonzalez Alonso and David Miller; 32. Variation in L2 Spanish Matthew Kanwit; 33. Third language acquisition Jennifer Cabrelli Amaro and Michael Iverson; Author index; Subject index
"The field of Spanish linguistics has a long-standing history, with an ever-increasing presence across multiple sub-fields of linguistic inquiry. This edited volume provides a state-of-the-art survey of the field of Spanish linguistics, striking a balance between depth of coverage in the most widely studied areas and breadth of coverage across sub- areas of this field. The Handbook aims to be readable to a diverse audience, including those with less extensive knowledge of linguistics or Spanish. It is particularly well suited for advanced undergraduate students or beginning graduate students in the field of Spanish linguistics. Nevertheless, the current and critical accounts of the most important research developments in each sub-field contained in the Handbook, as well as the critical discussions of directions for future research, are also of interest to top scholars across sub-fields. The breadth of coverage and diversity of approaches contained in this volume further ensure that this collection serves readers working on Spanish linguistics as well as researchers and students in allied fields such as General Linguistics, Anthropology, Sociology, Cognitive Science, Psychology and Language Education"--
