Phytochemicals in goji berries : applications in functional foods
"Phytochemicals in Goji Berries: Applications in Functional Foods, a volume in the Functional Foods and Nutraceuticals Series, provides information about the chemical, biochemical, botanic properties, bioactive components and health benefits of Goji berries. It also discusses postharvest storage technology, processing technology, and the development and utilization of Goji berry by-products in medicated foods and functional foods, as well as addressing food safety issues"--
Traditional goji berry-based functional food in Chinese history / Xingqian Ye, Jinhu Tian, Yuxue Zheng, Weixuan Sun, Wenhan Yang -- Phytochemical, biological and technological aspects of phenolic bioactives in goji berries / Aníbal de Freitas Santos Júnior, Milleno Dantas Mota, Caroline de Aragão Tannus, Fernanda de Souza Dias, Débora de Andrade Santana, Hesrom Fernandes Serra Moura, Hemerson Iury Ferreira Magalhães -- Antioxidant compounds and health-promoting properties in goji (Lycium barbarum): influence of genetic, environmental, and agronomic factors on phytochemical and healthy properties of fresh and dried fruits / Dario Donno, Maria Gabriella Mellano, Marta De Biaggi, Isidoro Riondato, Giovanni Gamba, Gabriele Loris Beccaro -- Medical effects of goji berries (Lycium barbarum) : development of supplementary products for health benefits / Jianping Chen, Karl W.K. Tsim -- Hyperglycemic effect of goji (Lycium barbarum) polysaccharide / Cai Huizhen -- Goji (Lycium barbarum) glycoconjugates: application in functional foods / Krzysztof Bojanowski,Tai An Pan, Hui Zhao, Rong Guo -- Black goji (Lycium ruthenicum), polyphenols: potent antioxidants and natural colorants / Peipei Tang, M. Monica Giusti -- Goji polysaccharides and its beneficial function / Hui Xia, Guiju Sun -- Carotenoids in goji berries (Lycium barbarum L.) - Structural diversity, nutritional importance and applications in functional foods / C.B. Steingass and R.M. Schweiggert -- Functional properties of goji (Lycium barbarum ) berry extracts / P. Skenderidis, K. Petrotos and S. Leontopoulos -- Phenolic profiles, antioxidant capacities of goji berries (Lycium barbarum) / Syam P.K. Jeepipalli, Baojun Xu -- Effect of extraction methods on the structure and bioactivity of the goji (Lycium barbarum) polysaccharides / Shiguo Chen, Shengyi Zhou, Rahman Md Atikur, Dongqi Guo, Xingqian Ye -- Bioprocessing of goji (Lycium barbarum) berries / Xiaojuan Zhang, Heng Li, Lianjun Meng, Han Jie, Yanan Li, Shanshan Wang, Huiling Zhang, Zhenghong Xu, Jinsong Shi -- Dehydration technologies and processing of goji berries / Efimia Dermesonlouoglou and P. Taoukis -- Pulsed vacuum drying, an emerging drying technology for goji berries / Yu-Hao Zhou, Xiang-Feng Hao, Zhen-Jiang Gao, Hong-Wei Xiao -- Innovation in improving storage potential of fresh goji berries (Lycium barbarum L.) / Mushtaque Ahmed Jatoi and Tomislav Jemric -- Effect of pre-treatment and drying process on health promoting component of goji berries / Serena Niro, Alessandra Fratianni, Luciano Cinquanta, Gianfranco Panfili -- Postharvest handling of fresh goji berries / Zhou Yijie, Hongxia Qu , Hong Zhu, Ying Wang, Yueming Jian -- Chemical constituents and their biological activities in seeds and leaves of goji berries (Lycium barbarum) / Qingbo Liu, Ling Ma, Jia Xiao, Wei Li -- History of goji berries in China / Qi Wei.
