Groundwater in fractured bedrock environments : managing catchment and subsurface resources
Fractured bedrock aquifers have traditionally been regarded as low-productivity aquifers, with only limited relevance to regional groundwater dynamics and storage. However, as this volume demonstrates with contributions from Europe, Africa and America, it is increasingly being recognized that understanding and characterizing these complex bedrock aquifers is fundamental to managing catchments and subsurface water and energy resources
Groundwater in fractured bedrock environments: managing catchment and subsurface resources : an introduction /U. Ofterdinger, A. M. MacDonald, J.-C. Comte and M. E. Young --Typology of hard rock ground waters within the Lower Sassandra, a main catchment in humid tropical West Africa /O. Fouché, Th. K. Yao, M.-S. Y. Oga and N. Soro --Catchment-scale heterogeneity of flow and storage properties in a weathered/fractured hard rock aquifer from resistivity and magnetic resonance surveys: implications for groundwater flow paths and the distribution of residence times /J.-C. Comte, U. Ofterdinger, A. Legchenko, J. Caulfield, R. Cassidy and J. A. Mézquita González --Evaluation of the geothermal effects caused by the weathering of crystalline rocks /Guy Vasseur and Patrick Lachassagne --Fractures in shale: the significance of igneous intrusions for groundwater flow /Alan M. MacDonald and Jeff Davies --Analysis and numerical modelling of large-scale controls on aquifer structure and hydrogeological properties in the African basement (Benin, West Africa) /Neil E. M. Dickson, Jean-Christophe Comte, Youssouf Koussoube, Ulrich S. Ofterdinger and Jean-Michel Vouillamoz --Multiple lines of field evidence to inform fracture network connectivity at a shale site contaminated with dense non-aqueous phase liquids /Beth L. Parker, Steven W. Chapman, Kenneth J. Goldstein and John A. Cherry --Towards defining a baseline status of scarce groundwater resources in anticipation of hydraulic fracturing in the Eastern Cape Karoo, South Africa: salinity, aquifer yields and groundwater levels /Divan H. Stroebel, Christien Thiart and Maarten de Wit --Hard-rock aquifer response to pumping and sustainable yield of wells in some areas of Mediterranean Region /Antonella Baiocchi, Francesca Lotti, Vincenzo Piscopo and Valentina Sammassimo --Fracture and conduit controls on groundwater movement in the Carboniferous Limestone of the eastern Mendip Hills, Somerset, England /Christopher J. Newton --Acoustic televiewer amplitude data for porosity estimation with application to porewater conversion /J. R. Kennel and B. L. Parker --Characterization and location of the laminated layer within hard rock weathering profiles from electrical resistivity tomography: implications for water well siting /Pierre Belle, Patrick Lachassagne, Francis Mathieu, Christine Barbet, Nicolas Brisset and Jean-Christophe Gourry --Metolachlor dense non-aqueous phase liquid source conditions and plume attenuation in a dolostone water supply aquifer /Beth L. Parker, Kenley Bairos, Carlos H. Maldaner, Steven W. Chapman, Christopher M. Turner, Leanne S. Burns, James Plett, Raymond Carter and John A. Cherry --James Robert Temple Hazell: A Pioneer of African Hydrogeology /Dotun Adekile and Richard Carter.
Fractured bedrock aquifers have traditionally been regarded as low-productivity aquifers, with only limited relevance to regional groundwater resources. It is now being increasingly recognised that these complex bedrock aquifers can play an important role in catchment management and subsurface energy systems. At shallow to intermediate depth, fractured bedrock aquifers help to sustain surface water baseflows and groundwater dependent ecosystems, provide local groundwater supplies and impact on contaminant transfers on a catchment scale. At greater depths, understanding the properties and groundwater flow regimes of these complex aquifers can be crucial for the successful installation of subsurface energy and storage systems, such as deep geothermal or Aquifer Thermal Energy Storage systems and natural gas or CO2 storage facilities as well as the exploration of natural resources such as conventional/unconventional oil and gas. In many scenarios, a robust understanding of fractured bedrock aquifers is required to assess the nature and extent of connectivity between such engineered subsurface systems at depth and overlying receptors in the shallow subsurface
