Frantz Fanon and emancipatory social theory : a view from the wretched
Frantz Fanon and his influence on the Black Panther Party and the black revolution / Mumia Abu-Jamal -- Alatas, Fanon, and coloniality / Syed Farid Alatas -- Fanon, black lives, and revolutionary black feminism: 21st century considerations / Rose M. Brewer -- On the possibility of a post-colonial revolutionary: reconsidering Žižek's universalist reading of Frantz Fanon in the interregnum / Dustin J. Byrd -- Fanon, Hegel and the materialist theory of history / Richard Curtis -- Connecting with Fanon: postcolonial problematics, Irish connections, and the shack dwellers rising in South Africa / Nigel C. Gibson -- Hegel, Fanon, and the problem of recognition / Ali S. Harfouch -- Frantz Fanon and the peasantry as the centre of revolution / Timothy Kerswell -- Frantz Fanon in Ali Shariati's reading: is it possible to interpret fanon in a Shariatian form? / Seyed Javad Miri -- Fanon and biopolitics / Pramod K. Nayar -- The secret life of violence / Elena Flores Ruíz -- Fanon's new humanist as antidote to today's colonial violence / Majid Sharifi and Sean Chabot -- The pathology of race and racism in postcolonial Malay society: a reflection on Frantz Fanon's Black skin, white masks / Mohamed Imran Mohamed Taib -- Re-reading fanon: language, literature, and empire / Esmaeil Zeiny.
"In Frantz Fanon and Emancipatory Social Theory: A View from the Wretched, Dustin J. Byrd and Seyed Javad Miri bring together a collection of essays by a variety of scholars who explore the lasting influence of Frantz Fanon, psychiatrist, revolutionary, and social theorist. Fanon's work not only gave voice to the "wretched" in the Algerian War of Independence (1954-1962), but also shaped the radical resistance to colonialism, empire, and racism throughout much of the world. His seminal works, such as Black Skin, White Masks, and The Wretched of the Earth, were read by The Black Panther Party in the United States, anti-imperialists in Africa and Asia, and anti-monarchist revolutionaries in the Middle East. Today, many revolutionaries and scholars have returned to Fanon's work, as it continues to shed light on the nature of colonial domination, racism, and class oppression. Contributors include: Syed Farid Alatas, Rose Brewer, Dustin J. Byrd, Sean Chabot, Richard Curtis, Nigel C. Gibson, Ali Harfouch, Timothy Kerswell, Seyed Javad Miri, Mumia Abu-Jamal, Pramod K. Nayar, Elena Flores Ruiz, Majid Sharifi, Mohamed Imran Mohamed Taib and Esmaeil Zeiny"
