How to make your doctoral research relevant : insights and strategies for the modern research environment
Contents: Why should we care about the relevance and impact of our research? -- 1. Introducing the book: The what, why and how of relevance and impact / Friederike Welter, David Urbano, Turki Alfahaid, Abdullah Aljarodi, Elsa Breit, Andreas Buhrandt, Débora de Castro Leal, Sina Feldermann, Jonas Janisch, Philipp Köhn, Tatiana Lopez, Anne Löscher, Anna Müller, Max Paschke, Philipp Julian Ruf, Julia Schnittker and Christine Weigel -- How to identify relevance in your research topic: New directions in entrepreneurship research -- 2. Bring your background up and keep the context in mind to choose the right conversation / Sebastian Aparicio -- 3. Irrelevant or relevant: Key learnings from an early career researcher for other early career researchers / Jonas Janisch -- 4. Schrödinger's family firm: On the German legislator implicitly defining the family business and how he attempts to protect it / Andreas Buhrandt -- 5. Can you spare a dollar, please? Foreign exchange shortage as a persistent challenge to economic development / Anne Löscher -- How to make your research approaches relevant -- 6. Find your conversation and join it / Claudia Alvarez -- 7. The real deal: A researcher among practitioners / Inga Haase -- 8. From practice to practice: An example for the relevance of research (projects) and its implications / Julia Schnittker -- 9. Different approaches of context in quantitative entrepreneurship research / Abdullah Aljarodi, Tatiana Lopez and Turki Alfahaid -- 10. How to study context in quantitative entrepreneurship research / Christine Weigel and Christian Soost -- 11. Reflections of an activist-academic / Débora de Castro Leal -- How to transfer your research results -- 12. Be passionate about your research topics and share this passion / Kerstin Ettl -- 13. The life cycle of academia and its impact on early career researchers' publishing behaviour / Philipp Julian Ruf and Philipp Köhn -- 14. Living under the restrictions of a 'publish or perish' culture / Christine Weigel and Anna Müller -- 15. Fighting for attention: Early career researchers and the online scientific community / Inga Haase and Anna Müller -- 16. The value of business events for engaged scholarship / Elsa Breit -- 17. Bridging the gap: Contextualization as a lighthouse / Max Paschke -- Afterthoughts -- 18. An ongoing journey: Developing relevance and impact dimensions of entrepreneurship research / Tatiana Lopez, Anna Müller and Max Paschke -- Index.
"Everyone wants their research to be read and to be relevant. This exciting new guide presents a broad range of ideas for enhancing research impact and relevance. Bringing together researchers from all stages of academic life, it offers a far-reaching discussion of strategies to optimise relevancy in the modern research environment. This book is crucial reading for advanced masters students, doctoral students and researchers in the social sciences wishing to grow the relevance of their research beyond academia. Senior researchers and educators offering doctoral courses will also benefit from its insight into the development of a generation of young researchers in the contemporary academic environment"--
