Custom Raspberry Pi Interfaces : Design and build hardware interfaces for the Raspberry Pi
This book equips the reader with skills necessary to design and build custom hardware interfaces for the Raspberry Pi. A thorough chapter on interfacing 5-volt systems to 3.3-volt Raspberry Pis expands the reader’s choice of peripheral options. Ready to go C++ programs involving GPIO and I2C peripherals are provided. Explores ADC, DAC, rotary encoders, CMOS shift registers. I2C I/O extenders. Readers will discover low cost display and sensor options for embedded system projects. Master 12C communications using Raspbian Linux in C++. Perform ADC and DAC experiments. Debounce buttons and switches using hardware and software solutions. Read rotary encoders for direction and step. Develop flywheel rotary encoder effects for ease of tuning. Construct a hardware interface to the Music Playing Daemon (MPD) with developed software. Discover how to add your own hardware keypad for remote combination lock applications
This book equips the reader with skills necessary to design and build custom hardware interfaces for the Raspberry Pi. A thorough chapter on interfacing 5-volt systems to 3.3-volt Raspberry Pis expands the reader's choice of peripheral options. Ready to go C++ programs involving GPIO and I2C peripherals are provided. Explores ADC, DAC, rotary encoders, CMOS shift registers. I2C I/O extenders.  Readers will discover low cost display and sensor options for embedded system projects. Master 12C communications using Raspbian Linux in C++. Perform ADC and DAC experiments. Debounce buttons and switches using hardware and software solutions. Read rotary encoders for direction and step. Develop flywheel rotary encoder effects for ease of tuning. Construct a hardware interface to the Music Playing Daemon (MPD) with developed software. Discover how to add your own hardware keypad for remote combination lock applications.What you'll learn:Build simple, low cost input/output interfaces including rotary encoders Interface with 5-volt devices from a 3-volt Raspberry Pi system Conquer stuttering buttons and switches through hardware and software debouncing Apply analog to digital and digital to analog conversions on the Pi Read potentiometers (volume control) from the Pi Determine step, directions, and velocity of a rotary encoder Provide your own hardware devices for embedded applicationsPerform remote interfacing using the I2 PCF8574 chip Work with external CMOS devices like the 74HC595 (in C++) Who this book is for:Students and hobbyists interested in building custom interfaces for their Raspberry Pis. Warren Gay has been an electronics enthusiast since childhood and often dragged discarded TV sets home after school. In high school he learned to program the IBM-1130 and then pursued a career in software development at Ryerson Polytechnical, in Toronto. Since then he has worked professionally for over 30 years, mainly in C/C++, under Unix and Linux. Meanwhile, the love of electronics has never faded since the early creation of his home-brewed Intel 8008 system in the 70's to the present day projects employing the Raspberry Pi. Warren also holds an advanced amateur radio license and was able to work the Mir space station (U2MIR) using packet radio in August 1991.He's authored other books including Sams Teach Yourself Linux in 24 Hours, Linux Socket Programming by Example, andAdvanced Unix Programming.
