Innovation and creativity : pillars of the future global economy
This book brings together different insights into the importance of innovation and creativity to build competitiveness in the European industry and society from different angles. The authors first look at how European countries and their policies have fared on innovation and creativity measures. They go on to examine multinational companies in particular, analyzing research and innovation at the headquarters and subsidiary level and the linkages between them. Looking at the management of innovation in firms and subsidiaries, they gain insights into how firms can innovate more effectively and efficiently. The study examines the role of management control and culture in stimulating creativity as well as an important driver of innovation. The chapters in the book are also complementary in the sense that they include qualitative as well as quantitative studies, from academic researchers to people working in the field. Researchers, professors, managers, students and policymakers interested in innovation, creativity, knowledge, multinational companies, competitiveness and Europe will be enlightened on how to be more creative and innovative
1. Innovation and creativity : statement of the issues / Filip De Beule and Ysabel Nauwelaerts -- 2. International trade in disembodied technology : trends, patterns and comparisons for European and OECD countries / Nathalie Avallone, Séverine Chédor and Jean-Louis Mucchielli -- 3. A snapshot on STI policies and indicators for Belgium / Peter Teirlinck -- 4. A longitudinal perspective on research and innovation in Belgium / Filip De Beule, Dieter Somers and Ilke Van Beveren -- 5. Which Portuguese firms are more innovative? The importance of multinationals and exporters / Armando Silva, Oscar Afonso and Ana Paula Africano -- 6. The effect of export promotion programs on export satisfaction : a study in the Flemish design sector / Ysabel Nauwelaerts and Elena Vijfeyken -- 7. Do firms benefit from investing in basic scientific research? An empirical investigation for pharmaceutical firms / Stijn Kelchtermans, Bart Leten and René Belderbos -- 8. FDI motives and host country productivity effects of US MNEs / John Cantwell and Roger Smeets-- 9. Reverse technology diffusion : on the diffusion of technological capabilities from competence-creating subsidiaries to headquarters of the MNE / Katarina Blomkvist -- 10. Innovation initiative within foreign subsidiaries in South Korea : determinants and outcomes / Axèle Giroud, Yoo Jung Ha and Mo Yamin -- 11. Management control in creative firms / Nathalie Beckers, Martine Cools and Alexandra Van den Abbeele -- 12. The TELE case : linking innovation process and culture in a large service company / Jens O. Meissner and Martin Sprenger.
