The Cambridge history of religions in Latin America
"The Cambridge History of Religions in Latin America covers religious history in Latin America from pre-Conquest times until the present. This timely publication is important, firstly, because of the historical and contemporary centrality of religion in the life of Latin America, a region which has been growing in global importance; secondly, for the rapid process of religious change which the region is undergoing; and thirdly, for the region's religious distinctiveness in global comparative terms, which contributes to its importance for debates over religion, globalization, and modernity, not least because Latin America now has more Catholics and more Pentecostals than any other region of the world. Unlike most works on religion in the region, and in recognition of recent strides in scholarship, this volume addresses the breadth of Latin American religion, including religions of the African diaspora, indigenous spiritual expressions, new religious movements, alternative spiritualities, and secularizing tendencies"--
Machine generated contents note: 1. Introduction Virginia Garrard-Burnett, Paul Freston and Stephen Dove; 2. Religion in the pre-contact New World: Mesoamerica and the Andes David Tavárez; 3. Religion in the pre-contact Old World: Europe Carlos M. N. Eire; 4. Religion in the pre-contact Old World: Africa Asonzeh Ukah; 5. Extending Christendom: religious understanding of the other Miguel León-Portilla; 6. New World 'savages', anthropophagy, and the European religious imagination Amos Megged; 7. Evangelization and indigenous religious reactions to conquest and colonization Manuel Aguilar-Moreno; 8. Tridentine Catholicism in the New World Brian Larkin; 9. The Inquisition in the New World Bruno Feitler; 10. Saint, shrines, and festivals days in colonial Spanish America Frances L. Ramos; 11. The Baroque church Pamela Voekel; 12. The Spanish missions of North and South America Ramón A. Gutie;rrez; 13. The Church, Africans, and slave religion in Latin America Joan Bristol; 14. Messianic and revitalization movements Miguel C. Leatham; 15. The expulsion of the Jesuits and the late colonial period John Lynch; 16. The Church and Latin American independence Jeffrey Klaiber; 17. Liberalism, anticlericalism, and antireligious currents in the nineteenth century Matthew Butler; 18. Religious devotion, rebellion, and messianic movements: popular Catholicism in the nineteenth century Douglass Sullivan-Gonzalez; 19. Historical Protestantism in Latin America Stephen Dove; 20. The Lutheran Church in Latin America: an overview Martin N. Dreher; 21. Marianism in Latin America Timothy Matovina; 22. Secularism and secularization Roberto Blancarte; 23. The revival of Latin American Catholicism, 1900-60 Bonar Ludwig Hernández Sandoval; 24. The intellectual roots of liberation theology Ivan Petrella; 25. Progressive Catholicism in Latin America: sources and its evolution from Vatican II to Pope Francis Manuel A. Vásquez and Anna L. Peterson; 26. The Catholic Church and dictatorship Susan Fitzpatrick-Behrens; 27. Latin American Pentecostalism as a new form of popular religion Andre; Corten; 28. History, current reality, and prospects of Pentecostalism in Latin America Paul Freston; 29. The Catholic charismatic renewal and the incipient pentecostalization of Latin American Catholicism Jakob Egeris Thorsen; 30. The religious media and visual culture in Latin America Karina Kosicki Bellotti; 31. Contemporary popular Catholicism in Latin America Jennifer Scheper Hughes; 32. Catholicism and political parties in modern Latin America Michael Fleet; 33. Human rights: an ongoing concern Christine Kovic; 34. Religion and gender in Latin America Kevin Lewis O'Neill; 35. Christian churches, reproduction and sexuality in Latin America Maria das Dores Campos Machado; 36. Indigenous peoples: religious change and political awakening Timothy J. Steigenga and Sandra Lazo de la Vega; 37. Inculturation theology and the 'new evangelization' Andrew Orta; 38. African diaspora religions in Latin America today Stephen Selka; 39. Afro-Caribbean religions Miguel A. De La Torre; 40. Spiritism in Latin America Sidney M. Greenfield; 41. Transnationalism, globalization, and Latin American religions Todd Hartch; 42. Religious identity and emigration from Latin America Thomas A. Tweed; 43. Neither Catholics nor Protestants: Mormons, Jehovah's Witnesses, Adventists, and La Luz del Mundo Patricia Fortuny de Loret and Henri Gooren; 44. Jews and Judaism in Latin America Jeffrey Lesser; 45. Islam in Latin America Ceci;lia L. Mariz; 46. Asian Religions in Latin America Jeffrey Lesser; 47. Ecumenism in Latin America: between the marketplace and the desert Edin Abumanssur; 48. The religious field in Latin America: autonomy and fragmentation David Lehmann; 49. Pathways to the future Daniel H. Levine
