Women, politics, and democracy in Latin America : crossing boundaries of gender and politics
1. Women, Politics, and Democracy in Latin America: An IntroductionBetilde Munoz-Pogossian, Flavia Freidenberg, Mariana Caminotti and Tomas Dosek Part One: Women's Descriptive Representation: From Quotas to Parity 2. Electoral Quotas and Beyond: Strategies to Promote Women in Politics Mona Lena Krook 3. Critical Challenges of Quotas and Parity in Latin AmericaNelida Archenti and Maria Ines Tula 4. The Variation of Quota Designs and their Origins in Latin America (1991-2015)Malu A. C. Gatto Part Two: Women's Substantive Representation and Policymaking 5. Challenging Gender Inequality within the State: Policy Agencies and Quota Laws in Latin America Jennifer Piscopo and Gwynn Thomas 6. Organizational Repertoires for Advancing Women's Rights: An Analysis of Structures, Groups and Policies in National Legislatures in Latin America and the Caribbean Ana Laura Rodriguez Gusta and Nancy Madera Part Three: Public Opinion, Gender Stereotypes and Social Media"br>7. Does Gender Make a Difference? The Gender Gap in Latin American PoliticsDinorah Azpuru 8. Presidentas Twitteras: The Social Media Use of Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner and Dilma RousseffYanina Welp and Saskia Ruth Part Four: Promoting Women's Political Participation: The Role of Domestic and International Institutions 9. Contributions of Electoral Justice to the Strengthening of Women's Political Rights: The Case of Mexico in Comparative PerspectiveMaria del Carmen Alanis Figueroa 10. Women in Elections: Identifying Obstacles and Strategies to Promote Electoral Competitiveness Betilde Munoz-Pogossian and Tyler Finn 11. Women and Politics in Colombia: Reforms, Advocacy and Other Actions led by International Development Agencies (2007-2014)Jose Ricardo Puyana Valdivieso 12. Breaking Concrete, Glass and Cash Ceilings: Conclusions and Policy Recommendations from Scholars and PractitionersFlavia Freidenberg, Betilde Munoz-Pogossian, Mariana Caminotti and Tomas Dosek
