Make a 2D RPG in a Weekend : With RPG Maker MV
Updated for RPG Maker MV using JavaScript, Make a 2D RPG in a Weekend shows you how to create your very own dungeon crawler game in RPG Maker MV in a single weekend. The entire process, from start to finish, is covered within this book. You will see a variety of dungeon maps and events, all broken down for your convenience. One of the hardest parts of game development is actually finishing a game, but it is also one of the most important steps on the way to becoming a game developer. If you have yet to finish a game, this book will give you the confidence and resources you need to finally be able to create your very own RPG. Once you've completed the game in this book, you'll be able to modify it as much as you like, adding new monsters and quests, and you'll have the skills to go on to create your second game all by yourself. Among the topics covered in this book are: Creating various types of enemy encounters via the use of the eventing system, and JavaScript replacing the old Ruby commands. Creating a special area that allows the player to pick their character of choice instead of being forced to play a particular character. Clever uses of events to create items that allow the player to return to town instantly and summon vehicles to their side. What You'll Learn: Create playable characters that have different attributes and play styles. Create a wide variety of weapons, armors, and items for the player to purchase, find, and use. JavaScript is now used throughout. Design dungeon levels with specific goals in mind. Create treasure chests with random contents or contents based on the player’s character. Create doors that require keys or puzzles to unlock. Create a variety of enemy encounters. Who This Book is For: Make a 2D RPG in a Weekend is for anyone who has ever wanted to create a game from scratch. All you need is this book and a copy of RPG Maker MV
Updated for RPG Maker MV using JavaScript, Make a 2D RPG in a Weekend shows you how to create your very own dungeon crawler game in RPG Maker MV in a single weekend. The entire process, from start to finish, is covered within this book. You will see a variety of dungeon maps and events, all broken down for your convenience. One of the hardest parts of game development is actually finishing a game, but it is also one of the most important steps on the way to becoming a game developer. If you have yet to finish a game, this book will give you the confidence and resources you need to finally be able to create your very own RPG. Once you've completed the game in this book, you'll be able to modify it as much as you like, adding new monsters and quests, and you'll have the skills to go on to create your second game all by yourself. Among the topics covered in this book are: Creating various types of enemy encounters via the use of the eventing system, and JavaScript replacing the old Ruby commands. Creating a special area that allows the player to pick their character of choice instead of being forced to play a particular character. Clever uses of events to create items that allow the player to return to town instantly and summon vehicles to their side. What You'll Learn: Create playable characters that have different attributes and play styles. Create a wide variety of weapons, armors, and items for the player to purchase, find, and use. JavaScript is now used throughout. Design dungeon levels with specific goals in mind. Create treasure chests with random contents or contents based on the player?s character. Create doors that require keys or puzzles to unlock. Create a variety of enemy encounters. Who This Book is For: Make a 2D RPG in a Weekend is for anyone who has ever wanted to create a game from scratch. All you need is this book and a copy of RPG Maker MV
