Pythium : diagnosis, diseases and management
The Genus Pythium: An Overview / Mahendra Rai, Kamel Abd-Elsalam, Avinash P. Ingle, Priti Paralikar, Pramod Ingle -- The Genus Pythium in Three Different Continents / Hani Mohamed Awad Abdelzaher, Shaima Mohamed Nabil Moustafa and Hashem Al-Sheikh -- Pythium: Diseases and Their Management / Patrycja Golińska and Magdalena Świecimska -- The Genus Phytopythium / Abdul Mubeen Lodhi, Saleem Shahzad and Rehana Naz Syed -- Top Three Plant Pathogenic Pythium Species / Amal-Asran and Kamel Abd-Elsalam -- Pythium Species Associated With Die-back Apple Trees and Citrus Gummosis in Tunisia / Naima Boughalleb-M'Hamdi, Najwa Benfradj and Souli Mounira -- Pathogenic and Beneficial Pythium Species in China: An Updated Review / Hon H. Ho and Kamel A. Abd-Elsalam -- The Pythium Complex of the Mid-North Region of Brazil / Janete Barros Silva, Douglas Trigueiro Silva, Francynara Pontes Rocha, Givanilso Cândido-Leal, Helanny Márcia Ribeiro Trajano, Joseane Lustosa Machado, Laércio de Sousa Saraiva, Maria do Amparo de Moura Macêdo, Nayara Dannielle Costa de Sousa, Tamyres Lopes Rios, Osiel César da Trindade Júnior and José de Ribamar de Sousa Rocha -- Pythium spp. on Vegetable Crops: Research Progress and Major Challenges / Pratibha Sharma, Prashant P. Jambhulkar, Raja, M. and Shaily Javeria -- Host Plants and Specificity of the Genus Pythium / Kamel Abd-Elsalam and Amal-Asran -- Taxonomic Challenges in the Genus Pythium / Reza Mostowfizadeh-Ghalamfarsa and Fatemeh Salmaninezhad -- Diagnosis of Pythium by Classical and Molecular Approaches / Shivannegowda Mahadevakumar and Kandikere Ramaiah Sridhar -- Pythium insidiosum - An Emerging Mammalian Pathogen / Erico S. Loreto, Juliana S.M. Tondolo and Janio M. Santurio -- Damping-off Caused by Pythium Species: Disease Profile and Management / Mohammad Imad Khrieba -- The Genus Pythium: Genomics and Breeding for Resistance / Ramadan A. Arafa, Said M. Kamel and Kamel A. Abd-Esalam -- Role of Phytochemicals in Plant Diseases Caused by Pythium / Rajendra M. Gade, Mahendra Rai, Ranjit S. Lad and Amol V. Shitole -- Pythium aphanidermatum and Its Control Measures / Tahira Parveen, Mukesh Meena, Tripta Jain, Kavita Rathore, Surbhi Mehta and Kanika Sharma -- Management of Pythium Diseases / Rehana Naz Syed, Abdul Mubeen Lodhi and Saleem Shahzad -- Management of Pythium spp. by Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungi / Sarika R. Bhalerao, Pratiksha R. Gund, Sunita D. Bansod and Mahendra Rai -- Pythium Species as Biocontrol Agents / Mousa Alghuthaymi, Khaled Kasem, Omar Atik and Kamel Abd-Elsalam.
"As mentioned above the proposed book will focus almost all the major concerns associated with the genus Pythium, which mainly include history and phytopathogenesis, detection and diagnosis of Pythium, Pythium as human pathogen and effective and ecofriendly management of Pythium. To the best of our knowledge till date there is no book published on "Pythium: Diagnosis, Diseases and Management" from any publisher"--
