Romanticism and speculative realism
Introduction: Literature and Philosophy in The World Without Us -- Chris Washington (Francis Marion University, USA) and Anne C. McCarthy (Penn State University, USA) -- 1. Of Meillassoux's Contingencies and Scott's Plots: Rethinking Probability in a World of Unreason -- Evan Gottlieb (Oregon State University, USA) -- 2. -- Affect and Air: The Speculative Spirit of the Age -- Michele Speitz (Furman University, USA) -- 3. Feeling as Hyperobject in Wordsworth's The Prelude -- Joel Faflak (University of Western Ontario, Canada) -- 4. Blank Oblivion, Condemned Life: John Clare's Obscurity -- David Collings (Bowdoin College, USA) -- 5. Speculative Enthusiasm: William Blake's Jerusalem and Quentin Meillassoux's Divine Ethics -- Allison Dushane (Angelo State University, USA) -- 6. Surfing the Crimson Wave: Romantic New Materialisms and Speculative Feminisms -- Kate Singer (Mount Holyoke College, USA) -- 7. Post-Apocalyptic Romantic Politics: Reveries of Rousseau, Derrida, and Meillassoux -- Chris Washington (Francis Marion University, USA) -- 8. Astral Guts: No-Self in Byron and Brassier -- Aaron Ottinger (University of Washington, USA) -- 9. A Perilous Change of Correspondence: Romanticism after [Nature] -- Mary Jacobus (University of Cambridge, UK) -- 10. Plasticity, Poetry, and the End of Art: Malabou, Hegel, Keats -- Greg Ellermann (Concordia University, Canada) -- 11. Poe's Black Cat -- Graham Harman (American University of Cairo, Egypt) -- 12. Objects Taken for Wonders in Equiano's Interesting Narrative -- Alexander Dick (University of British Columbia, Canada) -- 13. An Object-Oriented Media Studies: The Case of Romantic Cookery Books -- Brian Rejack (Illinois State University, USA) -- List of Contributors -- Index.
"Romanticism and Speculative Realism features a range of scholars working at the intersection of literary poetics and philosophy. It considers how the writing of the Romantic era reconceptualizes the human imagination, the natural world, and the language that correlates them in radical ways that can advance current speculative debates concerning new ontologies and new materialisms. In their wide-ranging examinations of canonical and non-canonical romantic writers, the scholars gathered here rethink the connections between the human and non-human world to envision speculative modes of social being and ecological politics. Spanning historical and national frameworks - from historical romanticism to contemporary post-romantic ecology, and from British and German romanticism to global modernity - these essays examine life in all its varied forms in, and beyond, the Anthropocene."--Bloomsbury Publishing
