Managing inter-organizational collaborations : process views
Introduction Process Views on Inter-organizational Collaborations; Hans Berends and Jörg Sydow Part I. Relational Dynamics in Inter-organizational Collaboration   Chapter 1. Relational Bonds Underlying Cooperative Inter-Organizational Relations in Different Societal Contexts; Peter Smith Ring and Andrew H. Van de Ven  Chapter 2. Building Adaptive Capacity in Project Network Organizations: Project Contexts, Network Ties and Relational Practices; Stephan Manning  Chapter 3. The Dynamics of Inter-organizational Relations in Contemporary Manufacturing: Nested Negotiations in Value Networks; Harry Sminia, Anup Nair, Aylin Ates, Steve Paton and Marisa Smith  Chapter 4. Technological Embeddedness of Inter-organizational Collaboration Processes; Katharina Cepa and Henri Schildt  Part II. Organizational Dynamics Forming and Dissolving Collaboration  Chapter 5. Insider Activists Pursuing an Agenda for Change: Selling the Need for Collaboration; Kristina Lauche Chapter 6. Phased Acquisition for Disruptive Innovation: Toward a Micro-level Governance Perspective; Dries Faems and Anoop Madhok  Chapter 7. Entrepreneurs or Employees? The Emergence of 'Disciplining Entrepreneurialism' in Subsidiary Organizations at Cyberagent; Rick Delbridge, Takahiro Endo and Jonathan Morris  Chapter 8. Collaborative Uncoupling: How to Break Up and Stay Together; Rene Wiedner and Shaz Ansari OPEN ACCESS Chapter  Part III. Dynamic Collaboration Beyond Organizations  Chapter 9. "Opening Innovation" Across Layers of Practices: Developing an Integrative View of the Emergence of Digital Health; Karl-Emanuel Dionne and Paul Carlile   Chapter 10. How Organizations Manage Crowds: Define, Broadcast, Attract and Select; Linus Dahlander, Lars Bo Jeppesen and Henning Piezunka  Chapter 11. Crowd-Open and Crowd-Based Collaborations: Facilitating the Emergence of Organization Design; Luca Giustiniano, Terri L. Griffith and Ann Majchrzak  Chapter 12. Collaborative Innovation Online: Entanglements of the Making of Content, Skills, and Community on a Songwriting Platform; Benjamin Schiemer, Elke Schüßler and Gernot Grabher OPEN ACCESS Chapter.
