New directions in productivity measurement and efficiency analysis : counting the environment and natural resources
This book explores novel research perspectives at the intersection of environmental/natural resource economics and productivity analysis, emphasizing the link between productivity and efficiency measurement, and environmental impacts. The purpose of the book is to present new approaches and methods for measuring environmentally adjusted productivity and efficiency, and for incorporating natural resources in standard national accounting practices. These methods are applicable in many contexts, including air and water pollution, climate change, green accounting, and environmental regulation. The contributions, written by distinguished leaders in the field, provide an up-to-date assessment of the state of the art in environmentally adjusted productivity and efficiency analysis. A review of the rapidly expanding literature is included and complemented by international case studies. The book's forward-looking ideas and new theories and methods trace future directions in this exciting and topical research area. This is an essential tool for researchers and scholars, including postgraduate students, working in the area of international and environmental accounting, and productivity and efficiency analysis. The book will also have a broad appeal for various professionals including statisticians, national accountants and policymakers
Contents: 1. Introduction / Tiho Ancev, M. A. Samad Azad and Francesc Hernández Sancho -- 2. Environmentally adjusted productivity and efficiency: a review of concepts, methods and empirical work / Tiho Ancev, M. A. Samad Azad and Mahmuda Akter -- 3. Modeling pollution abatement technologies as a network / Rolf G. Färe, Shawna Grosskopf, Carl A. Pasurka, Jr. -- 4. Efficiency analysis in uncertain operating environments: the problem with outliers / Kevin J. Fox and Lisa Y.T. Lee -- 5. Assessing stream health with respect to ecological connectivity / H.K. Edmonds, J.E. Lovell and C.A.K. Lovell -- 6. Accounting for nutrient pollution in measuring agricultural total factor productivity: a study of OECD economies / Viet-Ngu Hoang and Clevo Wilson -- 7. Incorporating the environment in agricultural productivity: applying advances in international environmental accounting / Carl Obst and Mark Eigenraam -- 8. Climate adjusted productivity in australian cropping farms / Neal Hughes and Kenton Lawson -- 9. Environmentally adjusted efficiency of municipal water suppliers / Fransec Hernández-Sancho and Águeda Bellver-Domingo -- 10. Valuing environmental and health impacts from action in wastewater management / Francesc Hernández-Sancho, Birguy Lamizana-Diallo and William Ingram -- 11. Estimating the cost of carbon abatement for China / Atakelty Hailu and Chunbo Ma -- 12. Environmentally adjusted efficiency of shrimp farming in Bangladesh / Hasneen Jahan and Tiho Ancev -- Index.
