Microbial electrochemical technologies
"The most updated and recent account of research and implementation of Microbial Electrochemical Technologies (METs) making it a must read for researchers, students, industry practitioners and science enthusiasts providing a holistic view of the METs, detailing the functional mechanisms, operational configurations and influencing factors governing the reaction progress and integration strategies. The book will not only provide historical perspective of the technology and its evolution over the years but also most recent examples of up-scaling and near future commercialization"--
Extracellular electron transport in geobacter and shewanella : a comparative description / Fernanda Jiménez Otero, Matthew D. Yates and Leonard M. Tender -- Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy : a noninvasive tool for performance assessment of bioelectrochemical systems / Namita Shrestha, Govind Chilkoor, Bhuvan Vemuri and Venkataramana Gadhamshetty -- Understanding bioelectrochemical limitations via impedance spectroscopy / Abhijeet P. Borole - Steering redox metabolism in pseudomonas putida with microbial electrochemical technologies / Bin Lai and Jens Krömer -- Monitoring electron transfer rates of electrode-respiring cells / Ozlem Istanbullu, Jerome Babauta, Ryan Renslow and Haluk Beyenal -- Electrode-assisted fermentations : their limitations and future research directions / Veronica Palma Delgado, Johannes Gescher and Gunnar Sturm -- Challenges and opportunities of microbial symbiosis for electrosynthesis applications / Oskar Modin and Nikolaos Xafenias -- Microbial electrolysis cell (MEC) : a versatile technology for hydrogen, value-added chemicals production and wastewater treatment / Abudukeremu Kadier, Piyush Parkhey, Ademola Adekunle, Pankaj Kumar Rai, Mohd Sahaid Kalil, S. Venkata Mohan and Azah Mohamed -- Mechanisms of heavy metal separation in bioelectrochemical systems and relative significance of precipitation / Hui Guo and Younggy Kim - Photosynthetic algal microbial fuel cell for simultaneous NH3-N removal and bioelectricity generation / Chaolin Tan, Ming Li, Minghua Zhou , Xiaoyu Tian, Huanhuan He and Tingyue Gu -- Nutrients removal and recovery in bioelectrochemical systems / Nan Zhao, Qun Yan and Zhen He -- Microbial fuel cells : treatment efficiency and comparative bioelectricity production from various wastewaters / Andrea G. Capodaglio and Silvia Bolognesi -- Bioelectrochemical systems for sustainable groundwater denitrification and removal of arsenic and chromium / Andrea G. Capodaglio and Daniele Cecconet -- An overview of carbon and nanoparticles application in bioelectrochemical system for energy production and resource recovery / Shiv Singh, Kshitij Tewari and Deepak Pant -- Opportunities for hydrogen production from urban/industrial wastewater in bioelectrochemical systems / Albert Guisasola, Juan Antonio Baeza, Antonella Marone, Éric Trably2 and Nicolas Bernet -- Microbial fuel cell sensors for water and wastewater monitoring / Sharon Velasquez-Orta, Ekaete Utuk and Martin Spurr -- Bioelectrochemical enhancement and intensification of methane production from anaerobic digestion / Christy M. Dykstra and Spyros G. Pavlostathis -- Fluidized bed electrodes in microbial electrochemistry / Sara Tejedor-Sanz and Abraham Esteve-Nuñez -- Electricity production from carbon monoxide and syngas in a thermophilic microbial fuel cell / Sonia M. Tiquia-Arashiro -- Microbial electrochemical technology drives metal recovery / Xochitl Dominguez-Benetton, Jeet Chandrakant Varia and Guillermo Pozo -- Plant-microbial fuel cells serve the environment and people : breakthroughs leading to emerging applications / Lucia Zwart, Cees J.N. Buisman and David Strik -- Degradation and mineralization of recalcitrant compounds in bioelectrochemical systems / Yixuan Wang, Xinbai Jiang, Houyun Yang, Weihua Li, Yang Mu and Jinyou Shen -- Enhanced bioremediation of petroleum hydrocarbons using microbial electrochemical technology / Huan Wang, Lu Lu and Zhiyong Jason Ren -- Electroactive Biochar : sustainable and scalable environmental applications of microbial electrochemical technologies / Raul Berenguer, Stefania Marzorati, Laura Rago, Pierangela Cristiani, Alberto Pivato, Abraham Esteve Nuñez and Andrea Schievano - Toward a sustainable biocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction in microbial fuel cells / Jean-Marie Fontmorin, Edward M. Milner and Eileen H. Yu -- Bioelectrochemical treatment : present trends and prospective / G. Velvizhi, J. Annie Modestra, Dileep Reddy Yeruva, J. Shanthi Sravan and S. Venkata Mohan -- Graphene electrodes in bioelectrochemical systems / Pier-Luc Tremblay, Yuan Li, Mengying Xu, Xidong Yang and Tian Zhang - Scale-up of bioelectrochemical systems for energy valorization of waste streams / Raúl M. Alonso, M. Isabel San-Martín, Raúl Mateos, Antonio Morán and Adrián Escapa -- Innovative bioelectrochemical-anaerobic digestion coupled system for process -- Monitoring optimization and product purification of wastewater / Yifeng Zhang, Xiangdan Jin, Mingyi Xu and Rusen Zou -- Modeling of wastewater treatment and methane production in a flow-through microbial electrolysis cell / Javier Dario Coronado, M. Perrier, B. Srinivasan and B. Tartakovsky - Appendix : material balances of the model -- Understanding the significance of current density in microbial electrochemical cells / Hyung-Sool Lee and Abid Hussain.
