Diseases of fruits and vegetable crops : recent management approaches
"Diseases of Fruits and Vegetable Crops: Recent Management Approaches covers certain basic aspects of knowledge on diagnostic symptoms, modes of perpetuation and dissemination of pathogens, favorable conditions for disease development, and the latest management strategies for disease prevention and mitigation in vegetable crops, fruit crops, and plantation crops. With chapters written by experts working on specific fruit and vegetables diseases, the volume covers many vegetable and fruit crops, including pineapples, grapes, apples, guava, litchi, potatoes, peas, beans, ginger and turmeric, and many more. Each chapter reviews the specific diseases relevant to the crop and their management and includes recent research findings. The information presented here will be valuable for plant protection officers, district horticulture officers, and other government personnel in the directorates and agencies of agriculture, horticulture and plant protection, as well as plant protection experts, vegetable specialists, and others"--
Pineapple Diseases and Their Integrated Management / Sanjeev Kumar and Erayya -- Disease of Apple and Their Management / J. N. Srivastava, A. K. Singh, and R. K. Sharma -- Citrus Diseases and Their Management / V. Jyothi and M. E. Shilpa -- Diseases of Grapes and Their Management / B. D. Devamani -- Diseases of Custard Apple and Their Management / G. L. Sharma and N. Lakpale -- Diseases of Guava and Their Management / B. D. Devamani -- Diseases of Jackfruit Crop and Their Management / R. C. Shakywar -- Diseases of Litchi and Their Management / Vinod Kumar -- Major Diseases of Mango and Their Management / Supriya Gupta, Pankaj Rautela, C. S. Azad, and K. P. Singh -- Diseases of Potato Crops and Their Management / Shailbala -- Diseases of Tomato Crops and Their Management / Pankaj Rautela, Supriya Gupta, C. S. Azad, and R. P. Singh -- Diseases of Elephant Foot Yam and Colocasia Crops and Their Management / Shailbala -- Diseases of Garden Pea (Pisum sativum L.) and Their Management / Ramesh Nath Gupta -- Diseases of Ginger and Turmeric and Their Management / Sunil Kumar and Gireesh Chand -- Diseases of Pointed Gourd Crops and Their Management / R. C. Shakywar, M. Pathak, Mukul Kumar, and R. B. Verma -- Diseases of Brinjals and Their Management / Narender Kumar, Ajay Kumar, Gireesh Chand, and S. K. Biswas -- Diseases of Carrots, Radishes, and Knol Khol and Their Management / Shailbala -- Major Diseases of Chili and Their Management / C. S. Azad, Pankaj Rautela, Supriya Gupta, and R. P. Singh -- Diseases of Cucurbits and Their Management: Integrated Approaches / Gireesh Chand -- Diseases of Beans Crop and Their Management / Shailbala -- Economically Important Diseases of Tea (Camellia sp.) and Their Management / Kishor Chand Kumhar and Azariah Babu -- Symptomatology and Etiology of Alternariose in Root, Fruits, and Leafy Vegetables / Udit Narain, Alka Kushwaha, Rajendra Prasad, and Ved Ratan -- Micronutrients Deficiency in Vegetable Crops and Their Management / Shweta Shambhavi, Rakesh Kumar, Rajkishore Kumar, and Mahendra Singh.
