Professional Red Teaming : Conducting Successful Cybersecurity Engagements
Chapter 1: Red Teams in Cyberspace -- Chapter 2: Why Human Hackers? -- Chapter 3: The State of Modern Offensive Security -- Chapter 4: Shaping -- Chapter 5: Rules of Engagement -- Chapter 6: Executing -- Chapter 7: Reporting -- Chapter 8: Purple Teaming -- Chapter 9: Counter-APT Red Teaming -- Chapter 10: Outcome Oriented Scoping -- Chapter 11: Initialization Perspectives -- Chapter 12: Reverse Red Teaming -- Chapter 13: Evaluating Offensive Security Processes -- Chapter 14: Experimentation -- Chapter 15: Validation.-
Use this unique book to leverage technology when conducting offensive security engagements. You will understand practical tradecraft, operational guidelines, and offensive security best practices as carrying out professional cybersecurity engagements is more than exploiting computers, executing scripts, or utilizing tools. Professional Red Teaming introduces you to foundational offensive security concepts. The importance of assessments and ethical hacking is highlighted, and automated assessment technologies are addressed. The state of modern offensive security is discussed in terms of the unique challenges present in professional red teaming. Best practices and operational tradecraft are covered so you feel comfortable in the shaping and carrying out of red team engagements. Anecdotes from actual operations and example scenarios illustrate key concepts and cement a practical understanding of the red team process. You also are introduced to counter advanced persistent threat red teaming (CAPTR teaming). This is a reverse red teaming methodology aimed at specifically addressing the challenges faced from advanced persistent threats (APTs) by the organizations they target and the offensive security professionals trying to mitigate them. What You’ll Learn: Understand the challenges faced by offensive security assessments Incorporate or conduct red teaming to better mitigate cyber threats Initiate a successful engagement Get introduced to counter-APT red teaming (CAPTR) Evaluate offensive security processes
