Absolute Beginners Guide to Computing
Part I. Basic Training -- 1. Understanding Computers -- 2. Giving Commands with the Mouse, Trackpad, and Keyboard -- 3. Running Programs -- 4. Typing and Editing Text -- 5. Understanding Files and Folders -- 6. Manipulating Files -- 7. Sharing Files -- Part II. Customizing Windows 10 -- 8. Using the Start Menu and Taskbar -- 9. Installing Software -- 10 - Customizing the Screen -- 11.Customizing the File Explorer Window -- 12. Organizing Windows -- Part III. Having Fun -- 13. Playing with Photos -- 14. Watching Video and Playing Audio -- 15. Drawing and Editing Pictures -- Part IV. Getting on the Internet -- 16. Browsing the Internet -- 17. Talking to Cortana -- 18. Using Email -- 19. Getting News -- 20. Chatting with Skype -- 21. Keeping Track of People -- Part V. Getting Work Done -- 22. Using OneNote -- 23. Keeping Track of Dates and Times -- 24. Capturing Screenshots and Audio -- 25. Using the Calculator -- Part VI. Useful Computer Information -- 26. Backing Up Your Data -- 27. Protecting Against Malware -- 28. Maintaining Your Computer.
This book teaches anyone how to use their new Windows computer. You will learn and understand how you can perform a wide range of tasks, including managing files, browsing the internet, and protecting yourself, as well as interacting with Cortana. Using Absolute Beginners Guide to Computing you will learn how to use Windows, and how you can connect and communicate with others. You will learn the basics of browsing the web, how to send email, and sign up for services. You will learn about some of the social media sites such as Facebook and Twitter. You will also learn how to connect and use external hardware, and process digital music, photos, and video. Written by an author who has written multiple computing titles, this book is friendly and approachable, and can teach anyone how to use a computer. With simple steps, easy troubleshooting, and online resources, it's the best place to learn how to make computing a part of your life.
