Lectures on Viscoelasticity Theory
This book contains notes for a one-semester course on viscoelasticity given in the Division of Applied Mathematics at Brown University. The course serves as an introduction to viscoelasticity and as a workout in the use of various standard mathematical methods. The reader will soon find that he needs to do some work on the side to fill in details that are omitted from the text. These are notes, not a completely de­ tailed explanation. Furthermore, much of the content of the course is in the prob­ lems assigned for solution by the student. The reader who does not at least try to solve a good many of the problems is likely to miss most of the point. Much that is known about viscoelasticity is not discussed in these notes, and references to original sources are usually not given, so it will be difficult or impossible to use this book as a reference for looking things up. Readers wanting something more like a treatise should see Ferry's Viscoelastic Properties of Polymers, Lodge's Elastic Liquids, the volumes edited by Eirich on Rheology, or any issue of the Transactions of the Society of Rheology. These works emphasize physical aspects of the subject. On the mathematical side, Gurtin and Sternberg's long paper On the Linear Theory of Viscoelasticity (ARMA~, 291(1962)) remains the best reference for proofs of theorems.
I. Viscoelastic Response in Shear -- 1. Stress Relaxation -- 2. Creep -- 3. Response Functions -- 4. Models -- 5. Superposition -- 6. Tensile Response -- 7. Relation between Modulus and Compliance -- 8. Sinusoidal Shearing -- 9. Nomenclature -- 10. Energy Storage and Loss -- 11. Oscillation with Increasing Amplitude -- II. Fourier and Laplace Transforms -- 1. Fourier Transforms -- 2. Two-sided Laplace Transforms -- 3. Laplace Transforms -- 4. Elementary Formulas -- 5. Convolutions -- III. Relations Between Modulus and Compliance. -- 1. Limits and Moments: Fluids -- 2. Limits and Moments: Solids -- 3. Solids and Fluids -- 4. Scale-Invariant Response -- 5. Approximate Transform Inversion -- 6. Direct Approximation -- 7. Approximate Relation between Modulus and Complex Modulus -- 8. Graphs of Moduli and Compliances -- IV. Some One-Dimensional Dynamical Problems -- 1. Torsional Oscillations -- 2. Plane Shear Waves -- V. Stress Analysis -- 1. Quasi-static Approximation -- 2. Stress-strain Relations -- 3. Simplest Deformations of Isotropic Materials -- 4. Simple Tension: Basic Approximation Methods -- 5. The Correspondence Principle -- 6. Example: Flat-headed Punch -- 7. Example: Tube under Internal Pressure -- 8. Incompressible Materials -- VI. Thermal Effects -- 1. The Time-Temperature Shift Factor -- 2. Example: Runaway -- 3. Variable-Temperature Histories -- 4. Example: Simple Tension of a Cooling Hod -- 5. Thermal Expansion -- VII. Large Deformations with Small Strains -- 1. Example: Simple Rotation -- 2. Example: Torsion -- 3. Small Distortions with Large Rotations -- 4. Relative Strain -- 5. Isotropic Materials -- 6. Fluids -- 7. Example: Steady Simple Shearing -- 8. Example: Oscillatory Shearing -- 9. Motions with Uniform Velocity Gradient -- 10. Anisotropic Fluids -- VIII. Slow Viscoelastic Flow -- 1. Viscoelastic Flow -- 2. Flow Diagnosis -- 3. Slow Viscoelastic Flow: Asymptotic Approximations -- 4. Slow Viscoelastic Flow: Three-dimensional Equations -- 5. Orders of Approximation in Slow Motion -- 6. The Rivlin-Ericksen Tensors -- 7. Solution of Problems -- 8. Ordinary Perturbations -- 9. A Useful Identity -- 10. Plane Flow -- 11. Flow in Tubes -- IX. Viscometric Flow -- 1. Stress -- 2. Example: Channel Flow -- 3. Slip Surfaces, Shear Axes, and Shear Rate -- 4. Dynamical Problems -- 5. Flow In Tubes -- 6. Viscometric Equation in Terms of Rivlin-Ericksen Tensors -- 7. Centripetal Effects -- 8. Boundary Layers.
