Preparing for high impact organizational change : experiential learning and practice
Preparing for High Impact Change: Experiential Learning and Practice provides an overview of change processes for teaching, facilitating, and coping with change. Tested high-impact exercises in the book will prepare change leaders at all organizational levels to deal with the myriad of challenges inherent in the process of organizational change. Effective organizational change involves a combination of understanding, learning and unlearning, and practiced behaviour as part of the underlying conceptualization, formulation, and implementation processes. The book presents a series of exercises that promote self-learning and developing readiness for change, from preparing people for change, understanding and managing resistance, and coping with change-related obstacles to seeking buy-in for the change. Emphasis throughout the book is placed on developing change-related competencies. This book is a resource for understanding aspects of change, from theory to practice, for consultants, educators, students and practitioners in corporate training and development roles
Contents: Introduction -- 1. Preparing for high impact change : the critical role of experiential learning and practice / Anthony F. Buono, Susan M. Adams, and Gavin M. Schwarz -- Part I: Experiential learning as a pedagogical tool : getting started -- 2. The competencies of successful scholar-practitioners / Ramkrishnan (Ram) V. Tenkasi, George W. Hay, and Eric J. Sanders -- 3. Using icebreaker exercises : futility and possibility-assessing reactions to organizational change / Anthony F. Buono -- 4. Teaching theory experientially / Robert J. Marshak -- Part II: Self-learning and beyond through change exercises -- 5. Increasing manager's self-awareness through story-telling and mask making / Philip H. Mirvis -- 6. Exploring reactions to change : a card game simulation / Susan M. Adams -- 7. From both sides to all sides : creating common ground where there's been none before / Matt Minahan -- 8. Eliciting group affect and emotive tone : the mads, glads and sads exercise / Michael R. Manning and Melissa Norcross -- Part III: Communicating change -- 9. Symbols : creating meaning from the change message / Richard Dunford -- 10. The ball game : teaching organizational change and communication / Cynthia A. Martinez -- Part IV: The human side of change : strategy, culture, and change recipients -- 11. Applying Lewin's force field theory to facilitate SWOT analysis : an effective and efficient approach / Mary M. Nash, Michael R. Manning, and E. John Heiser -- 12. Diminishing resources : building strategy for change / Ann E. Feyerherm -- 13. Exploring the dynamics of organizational culture and change: developing skills and strategies to navigate change in a complex world / David W. Jamieson, Jackie M. Milbrandt, and Nicole M. Zwieg Daly -- 14. Building exhange relations and brokerage positions within groups / Keith Hunter -- 15. Ugh! Generational conflict amidst a change effort / Therese F. Yaeger -- Part V: The experiential exercise end game : end point engagement -- 16. Debriefing change exercises : end-point engagement / Gary Wagenheim -- 17. Facilitating focused debriefing : connecting experience with theory and reflection - the three-part journal / Anthony F. Buono -- 18. Afterword : The change game - moving from toolkits to "that was great!" / Susan M. Adams, Gavin M. Schwarz, and Anthony F. Buono -- Index.
