Reducing inequalities in Europe : how industrial relations and labour policies can close the gap
International debate has recently focused on increased inequalities and the adverse effects they may have on both social and economic developments. Income inequality, now at its highest level for the past half-century, may not only undermine the sustainability of European social policy but also put at risk Europe's sustainable recovery. A common feature of recent reports on inequality (ILO, OECD, IMF, 2015-17) is their recognition that the causes emerge from mechanisms in the world of work. The purpose of this book is to investigate the possible role of industrial relations, and labour policies more generally, in reducing these inequalities. The book pays particular attention to the contribution of social partners and social dialogue to achieving concrete outcomes, notably in terms of flexibility and security for both employers and workers. The key aim is to identify elements of a response to a number of important questions: which countries have succeeded in carrying out the necessary reforms without generating further inequalities? What industrial relations systems seem to perform better in this respect? What policy measures, institutions and actors play a determinant role in achieving more balanced outcomes? How can social dialogue address future transformations of the world of work while limiting inequalities? The scope of this book goes beyond pay to address other types of inequality - in the distribution of working time, access or re-access to jobs, training and career opportunities, and social protection and pensions. It also looks at inequalities that may affect particular groups of workers, including women or young people, as well as people in certain types of work arrangements, such as part-time or temporary work or the self-employed. This book is vital reading for anyone concerned with labour policy, industrial relations and social welfare but, above all, with how advances in these areas can contribute to the global fight against growing inequalities
Contents: 1. Curbing inequalities in Europe: the impact of industrial relations and labour policies / Daniel Vaughan-Whitehead and Rosalia Vazquez-Alvarez -- 2. Labour market inequalities in conditions of limited social dialogue: the case of the Baltic states / Jaan Masso, Maryna Tverdostup, Inta Mierina and Kerly Espenberg -- 3. Belgium: is robust social concertation providing a buffer against growing inequality? / Ive Marx and Lien Van Cant -- 4. Social dialogue in France under pressure: can worker security be achieved in a context of increasing job flexibility? / Pierre Courtioux and Christine Erhel -- 5. Social dialogue in Germany: innovation or erosion? / Gerhard Bosch -- 6. Industrial relations, imposed flexibility and inequality during the Greek Great Depression / Maria Karamessini and Stefanos Giakoumatos -- 7. Social dialogue and inequality: Ireland / Brian Nolan -- 8. Italy: industrial relations and inequality in a recessionary environment / Annamaria Simonazzi and Giuseppe Fiorani -- 9. The Netherlands: Is the polder model behind the curve with regard to growing household income inequality? / Wiemer Salverda -- 10. Changes in inequality outcomes alongside industrial relations transformation in Slovenia / Branko Bembič -- 11. Industrial relations and inequality in the Spanish labour market: resilience and change / Rafael Muñoz de Bustillo and Fernando Pinto Hernández -- 12. Shaping the future of work in Sweden: the crucial role of social partnership / Dominique Anxo -- 13. Inequality at work in the United Kingdom: how perforated industrial relations worsen inequalities and hold back progress on equalities / Damian Grimshaw and Mat Johnson -- Index.
