Creating resilient economies : entrepreneurship, growth and development in uncertain times
Contents: 1. Introduction / Nick Williams and Tim Vorley -- Part I : The resilience of entrepreneurs, industrial sectors and cities -- 2. Strategies for resilience in entrepreneurship: building resources for small business survival after a crisis / Rachel Doern -- 3. The resilience of entrepreneurs and small business in the depths of a recessionary crisis / Nick Williams and Tim Vorley -- 4. Vulnerability and adaptability: Post-crisis resilience of SMEs in Denmark / Christian Kjær Monsson -- 5. Resilience, adaptation and survival in industry sectors: Remaking and remodelling of the automotive sector / Gill Bentley, David Bailey and Daniel Braithwaite -- 6. The evolution of economic resilience in cities: Re-invention versus replication / James Simmie -- 7. Path dependency, entrepreneurship, and economic resilience in resource-driven economies. Lessons from the Newfoundland offshore oil industry, Canada / Cédric Brunelle and Ben Spigel -- 8. Resilient regions and open innovation: the evolution of smart cities and civic entrepreneurship / Jennifer Clark -- Part II: The resilience of local and regional economies -- 9. Governance, civic leadership and resilience / Chay Brooks -- 10. Entrepreneurship, culture and resilience: the determinants of local development in uncertain times / Robert Huggins and Piers Thompson -- 11. The resilience of growth strategies / Lee Pugalis, Nick Gray and Alan Townsend -- 12. Local economic resilience in Italy / Paolo Di Caro -- 13. Evolutionary perspectives on economic resilience in regional development / Emil Evenhuis and Stuart Dawley -- 14. Regional resilience: the critique revisited / Huiwen Gong and Robert Hassink -- 15. Final thoughts and reflections -- Index
Economic resilience is an emergent field in the social sciences. In this timely book, key scholars examine how individuals, organisations, regions and nations are affected by internal and external crises, and consider how the ways in which they respond will determine their future growth path. Providing a coherent and clear narrative, Creating Resilient Economies offers a theoretical analysis of resilience and provides guidance to policymakers with regards to fostering more resilient economies and people. It adeptly illustrates how resilience thinking can offer the opportunity to re-frame economic development policy and practice and provides a clear evidence base of the cultural, economic, political and social conditions that shape the adaptability, flexibility and responsiveness to crises in their many forms. Academics and scholars across the social sciences will find this book an enlightening gateway into the subject of economic resilience. Its eminently practical approach will also benefit government policy makers interested in how localities, regions and nations can respond more effectively to crises
