Artificial intelligent techniques for electric and hybrid electric vehicles
"Modern trends and ecological benefits toward greenhouse gas emission-free mobility system is seen as the only long-term solution for tackling climate change. In such circumstances, the Electric Vehicles (EV)/Hybrid Electric Vehicles (HEV) is one of the emerging research sectors, wherein huge work is under way. The demand for EV/HEV is growing exponentially"--
IoT-based battery management system for hybrid electric vehicle / P. Sivaraman and C. Sharmeela -- A noble control approach for brushless direct current motor drive using artificial intelligence for optimum operation of the electric vehicle / Upama Das, Pabitra Kumar Biswas and Chiranjit Sain -- Optimization techniques used in active magnetic bearing system for electric vehicles / Suraj Gupta, Pabitra Kumar Biswas, Sukanta Debnath and Jonathan Laldingliana -- Small-signal modelling analysis of three-phase power converters for EV applications / Mohamed G. Hussien, Sanjeevikumar Padmanaban, Abd El-Wahab Hassan and Jens Bo Holm-Nielsen -- Energy management of hybrid energy storage system in PHEV with various driving mode / S. Arun Mozhi, S. Charles Raja, M. Saravanan and J. Jeslin Drusila Nesamalar -- Reliability approach for the power semiconductor devices in EV applications / Krishnachaitanya, D., Chitra, A. and Biswas, S.S. -- Modeling, simulation and analysis of drive cycles for PMSM-based HEV with optimal battery type / Chitra, A., Srivastava, Shivam, Gupta, Anish, Sinha, Rishu, Biswas, S.S. and Vanishree, J. -- Modified firefly-based maximum power point tracking algorithm for PV systems under partial shading conditions / Chitra, A., Yogitha, G., Karthik Sivaramakrishnan, Razia Sultana, W. and Sanjeevikumar, P. -- Induction motor control schemes for hybrid electric vehicles/electric vehicles / Sarin, M.V., Chitra, A., Sanjeevikumar, P. and Venkadesan, A. -- Intelligent hybrid battery management system for electric vehicle / Rajalakshmi, M. and Razia Sultana, W. -- A comprehensive study on various topologies of permanent magnet motor drives for electric vehicles application / Chiranjit Sain, Atanu Banerjee and Pabitra Kumar Biswas -- A new approach for flux computation using intelligent technique for direct flux oriented control of asynchronous motor / A. Venkadesan, K. Sedhuraman, S. Himavathi and A. Chitra -- A review on isolated DC-DC converters used in renewable power generation applications / Ingilala Jagadeesh and V. Indragandhi -- Basics of vector control of asynchronous induction motor and introduction to fuzzy controller / S.S. Biswas.
