Race and transnationalism in the Americas
"National borders and transnational forces have been central in defining the meaning of race in the Americas. Race and Transnationalism in the Americas examines the ways that race and its categorization have functioned as organizing frameworks for cultural, political, and social inclusion-and exclusion-in the Americas. Because racial categories are invariably generated through reference to the "other," the national community has been a point of departure for understanding race as a concept. Yet this book argues that transnational forces have fundamentally shaped visions of racial difference and ideas of race and national belonging throughout the Americas, from the late nineteenth century to the present. Examining immigration exclusion, indigenous efforts toward decolonization, government efforts to colonize, sport, drugs, music, populism, and film, the authors examine the power and limits of the transnational flow of ideas, people, and capital. Spanning North America, Central America, South America, and the Caribbean, the volume seeks to engage in broad debates about race, citizenship, and national belonging in the Americas"--
Toward new coordinates? / Marc Hertzman -- Asian migration, racial hierarchies, and exclusion in Argentina, 1890-1920 / Benjamin Bryce -- Intersections, barriers, and borders in Gregorio Titriku's Republic of Qullasuyu / Waskar Ari-Chachaki -- Race and political rights : constructions of citizenship among British Caribbeans inside and outside the British Empire, 1918-1962 / Lara Putnam -- Crossing the border at the Primer Congreso Indigenista Interamericano, 1940 / Alexander Dawson -- No place in the cosmic race? The false promises of Mestizaje and Indigenismo in postrevolutionary Mexico / Stephen Lewis -- Creating false analogies : race and drug wars 1930s to 1950s / Elaine Carey -- Baseball and the categorization of race in Venezuela / David M.K. Sheinin -- Making their own Mahatma : Salvador's Filhow de Gandhy and the local history of a global phenomenon / Marc Hertzman -- Reading the Caribbean and United States through Panamanian reggae en español / Sonja Stephenson Watson -- The tortuous road toward the building of a mosque in Buenos Aires : overcoming racial stereotypes under populist governments / Raanan Rein -- Buried : race, photography, and memory in Damiana Kryygi / Kevin Coleman with Julia Irion Martins -- Epilogue: Overcoming the national / Benjamin Bryce and David M.K. Sheinin.
