Handbook of research methods in corporate social responsibility
Contents: Introduction / David Crowther and Linne Marie Lauesen -- Part I: Methodology planning -- 1. Grounded theory in corporate social responsibility research / Vilma Žydžiūnaitė and Loreta Tauginienė -- 2. Using a mixed methods approach for corporate social responsibility research / Jane Claydon -- 3. Imperative of meta-study for research in the field of corporate social responsibility and emerging issues in corporate governance / Lukman Raimi -- 4. Ethics in the research process / David Crowther -- 5. Research methods in organization, management and management accounting: an evaluation of quantitative and qualitative approaches / Miriam Green -- 6. Methodological and epistemological perspectives in the study of corporate social responsibility in Colombia / Duván Emilio Ramírez Ospina and José Fernando Muñoz Ospina -- Part II: Quantitative methods -- 7. Game theory as a research tool for sustainability / Shahla Seifi -- 8. Key concerns in longitudinal study design / Rima Kalinauskaitė -- 9. Sampling and sampling procedures in corporate social responsibility research / Habib Zaman Khan and Md. Rashidozzaman Khan -- 10. Food deserts in British cities : comparing food access, obesity, and ethnicity in Leicester and Stoke on Trent / Hillary Shaw -- 11. The application of statistical methods in CSR research / Christopher Boachie and George K. Amoako -- 12. Regression techniques and its application in the corporate social responsibility domain: an overview / Sonali Bhattacharya, Madhvi Sethi, Abhishek Behl and V.G. Venkatesh -- Part III: Qualitative methods -- 13. Analytic autoethnography as a tool to enhance reflection, reflexivity and critical thinking in CSR research / Fernanda de Paiva Duarte -- 14. Insights regarding the applicability of semiotics to CSR communication research / Kemi C. Yekini -- 15. Ethnographic research methods in CSR research : building theory out of people's everyday life with materials, objects, practices, and symbolic constructions / Linne Marie Lauesen -- 16. Interviews as an instrument to explore management motivation for corporate social and environmental reporting / Homaira Semeen and Muhammad Azizul Islam -- 17. Participant observation as the data collection tool and its usage in the CSR researches / Ilke Oruc -- 18. Application of correspondence analysis to determinants of human resources disclosure / Esther Ortiz and José G. Clavel -- 19. The application of survey methodology in CSR research / Christopher Boachie -- 20. Content analysis method: a proposed scoring for quantitative and qualitative disclosures / Juniati Gunawan and Kumalawati Abadi -- 21. Focus groups in social accounting as a stakeholder engagement tool / Sara Moggi -- 22. A phenomenological study of moral discourse, social justice and CSR / Julia J.A. Shaw -- 23. Social network analysis in CSR research / Duygu Turker -- 24.Theoretical storytelling as meta-frame for all research methods in corporate social responsibility / Linne Marie Lauesen -- Part IV: Future research agenda -- 25. Philosophical prolegomena to all future research in CSR / Nicholas Capaldi -- 26. Beyond strategic CSR : the concept of responsibility as the foundation of ethics: political, technological and economic responsibility for the future of humanity / Jacob Dahl Rendtorff -- 27. From positivism to social constructivism: an emerging trend for CSR researchers / Martin Samy and Fiona Robertson -- Index.
Corporate social responsibility now touches upon most aspects of the interaction between business and society. The approaches taken to research in this area are as varied as the topics that are researched; yet this is the first book to address the whole range of methods available. This Handbook identifies the existing methods, evaluates their use and discusses the circumstances in which they might be appropriate. The design of a research project is an essential part of undertaking research, as is choosing appropriate methods for investigation and analysis. In addition, business and management research raises theoretical and practical problems that are not encountered in other fields. The chapters address this challenge over distinct parts. Part I on methodology planning is concerned with various aspects of planning the research project, including secondary data and ethics in the research process. Parts II and III outline quantitative and qualitative methods respectively, covering the vast majority of relevant approaches. Part IV provides forward-thinking guidance from experienced academics on the future directions of research in this area. Aimed specifically at researchers, this comprehensive and in-depth Handbook provides an essential resource for anyone working at the forefront of corporate social responsibility research
