Climate adaptation and resilience across scales : from buildings to cities
Introduction / Nicholas B. Rajkovich and Seth H. Holmes -- Resilient design modeling: where are we and where can we go? / Seth H. Holmes -- Planning for a changing climate without accurate predictions / Parag Rastogi and Mohammad Emtiyaz Khan -- Tools for community energy empowerment: a co-design approach / Bess Krietemeyer -- RHOnDA: an online tool to help homeowners and tenants increase resilience / Michelle Laboy and David Fannon -- Resilience hubs: shifting power to communities through action / Kristin Baja -- Climate change and health: connecting the dots, building a resilient future / Kim Knowlton and Yerina Mugica -- Increasing adaptive capacity of vulnerable populations through inclusive design / Jordana Maisel, Brittany Perez, and Krista Macy -- Passive survivability: keeping occupants safe in an age of disruptions / Alex Wilson -- Designing resilient coastal communities with living shorelines / Wendy Meguro and Karl Kim -- Adapting inland floodplain housing to a changing climate: disturbance, risk, and uncertainty as drivers for design / Jamie L. Vanucchi -- 4D! Resilient design in four dimensions / Illya Azaroff -- Understanding sustainability and resilience as applied: tracking the discourse in city policy / Martha Bohm -- Perspectives from practice / Jason Swift, Braden Kay, Terry Schwarz, Dana Kochnower, Kevin Bush, Jodi Smits Anderson, Allison Anderson, Matthew Elley, Erin Hatcher, Janice Barnes, and Rachel Minnery.
"Climate Adaptation and Resilience Across Scales provides professionals with guidance on adapting the built environment to a changing climate. This edited volume brings together practitioners and researchers to discuss climate-related resilience from the building to the city scale. This book highlights North American cases that deal with issues such as climate projections, public health, adaptive capacity of vulnerable populations, and design interventions for floodplains, making the content applicable to many locations around the world. The contributors in this book discuss topics ranging from how built environment professionals respond to a changing climate, to how the building stock may need to adapt to climate change, to how resilience is currently being addressed in the design, construction, and operations communities. The purpose of this book is to provide a better understanding of climate change impacts, vulnerability, and resilience across scales of the built environment. Architects, urban designers, planners, landscape architects, and engineers will find this a useful resource for adapting buildings and cities to a changing climate"--
