Handbook of marine craft hydrodynamics and motion control
"Handbook of Marine Craft Hydrodynamics and Motion Control is an extensive study of the latest research in hydrodynamics, guidance, navigation, and control systems for marine craft. The text establishes how the implementation of mathematical models and modern control theory can be used for simulation and verification of control systems, decision-support systems, and situational awareness systems. Coverage includes hydrodynamic models for marine craft, models for wind, waves and ocean currents, dynamics and stability of marine craft, advanced guidance principles, sensor fusion, and inertial navigation. This important book includes the latest tools for analysis and design of advanced GNC systems and presents new material on unmanned underwater vehicles, surface craft, and autonomous vehicles. References and examples are included to enable engineers to analyze existing projects before making their own designs, as well as MATLAB scripts for hands-on software development and testing. Highlights of this Second Edition include: ? Topical case studies and worked examples demonstrating how you can apply modeling and control design techniques to your own designs ? A Github repository with MATLAB scripts (MSS toolbox) compatible with the latest software releases from Mathworks ? New content on mathematical modeling, including models for ships and underwater vehicles, hydrostatics, and control forces and moments ? New methods for guidance and navigation, including line-of-sight (LOS) guidance laws for path following, sensory systems, model-based navigation systems, and inertial navigation systems This fully revised Second Edition includes innovative research in hydrodynamics and GNC systems for marine craft, from ships to autonomous vehicles operating on the surface and under water. Handbook of Marine Craft Hydrodynamics and Motion Control is a must-have for students and engineers working with unmanned systems, field robots, autonomous vehicles, and ships. MSS toolbox: https://github.com/cybergalactic/mss Lecture notes: https://www.fossen.biz/wiley Author?s home page: https://www.fossen.biz"--
