Authoritarian capitalism in the age of globalization
1. The rise of authoritarian capitalism in the twenty-first century -- 2. Fantasizing authoritarian capitalism- a brief history -- 3. Globalization and the desire for authoritarianism -- 4. The market despots : the global capitalist fantasy of authoritarian nationalism -- 5. Developing authoritarian capitalism : the global capitalist fantasy of authoritarian modernization -- 6. The tyranny of (neo)liberal democracy : a global capitalist fantasy of authoritarian freedom -- 7. A responsible global hegemony : the capitalist fantasy of authoritarian "good governance" -- 8. In the global grip of authoritarian capitalism : from liberal democracy to capitalist sovereignty.
Exploring the rise of authoritarian capitalism, this book offers a fresh perspective on politics and economics in the present age of globalization. It asks the crucial question of whether individuals and nations can break free from the 'grip' of authoritarian capitalism in the twenty-first century. Peter Bloom includes a detailed and in-depth analysis of how marketization is promoting political authoritarianism across the world. He tells a story of authoritarian progress - where capitalist prosperity can only be delivered by the coercive rule of 'self-disciplining' nations and 'disciplining' trans-national institutions - and in which capitalist sovereignty is replacing liberal and social democracy. In doing so, Bloom helps readers rethink the structural as well as discursive role of sovereign power within capitalism, showing the ways the free market relies upon a range of authoritarian political fantasies not just for its growth but its very survival. Students and scholars of political science, critical theory, economics, development studies, international relations, sociology and organization studies will benefit from the unique insights and opportunities this important text provides. This book will also be of interest to practitioners focusing on issues such as globalization, political authoritarianism, and the expansion of the free market nationally and internationally
