High-pressure flows for propulsion applications
Microgravity research on quasi-steady and unsteady combustion of fuel droplet at high pressures / Hiroshi Nomura, Shinji Nakaya and Mitsuhiro Tsue -- Laboratory experiments of high-pressure fluid drops / Grazia Lamanna, Christoph Steinhausen, Florian Weckenmann, Bernhard Weigand, Benjamin Bork, Andreas Preusche, Andreas Dreizler, Rolf Stierle and Joachim Gross -- Optical diagnostics for sprays at high pressure / Mark Linne, Zachary Falgout, and Mattias Rahm -- Supercritical coaxial jet disintegration / Shaun DeSouza, Corin Segal -- High-pressure experiments relevant to rocket propulsion / S. Sardeshmukh, C. Huang, R. Gejji, M. Bedard, Z. Hallum, R. Lucht and W. Anderson -- Forced and unforced shear coaxial mixing and combustion at subcritical and supercritical pressures / D.J. Forliti, I.A. Leyva, D.G. Talley, J.I. Rodriguez, S. Teshome, J.L. Wegener, M. Roa, A.R. Karagozian --Measurement of heat transfer in liquid rocket combustors / M. Oschwald, D. Suslov, J. Haemisch, O. Haidn, M. Celano, C. Kirchberger, N. Rackemann, A. Preuß, D. Wiedmann -- Characterization of droplet nucleation inside supercritical ethylene jets using small-angle x-ray scattering technique / Kuo-Cheng Lin, Campbell Carter, Xiaobing Zuo and Alec Sandy -- Empirical fundamental equations of state for pure fluids and mixtures / Monika Thol, Ian H. Bell -- Molecular simulations to research supercritical fuel properties / Li Qiao, Shourya Jain and Guiyuan Mo -- Large eddy simulations of high-pressure jets: effect of subgrid-scale modeling / Aswin Gnanaskandan, Josette Bellan -- High-pressure flames with multicomponent transport / Vincent Giovangigli, Lionel Matuszewski and Pierre Gaillard -- Large-eddy simulation of cryogenic jet injection at supercritical pressures / Jan Matheis, Hagen Müller, Stefan Hickel, Michael Pfitzner --Detailed modeling of supercritical jets and flames / Shingo Matsuyama, Hiroshi Terashima, Mitsuo Koshi, Akira Umemura -- Modeling and simulations of high-pressure practical flows / Guillaume Ribert, Pascale Domingo, Xavier Petit, Nathalie Vallée, Jean-Bernard Blaisot -- Large-eddy simulation of liquid injection and combustion processes in high-pressure systems / Joseph C. Oefelein, Guilhem Lacaze -- Simulation of the high-pressure combustion process in diesel engines / Zongyu Yue and Rolf D. Reitz.
