New Directions in Cognitive Grammar and Style
"In recent years, the Cognitive Grammar account of language and mind has become an influential framework for the study of textual meaning and interpretation. This book is the first to bring together applications of Cognitive Grammar for a range of stylistic purposes, including the analysis of both literary and non-literary discourse. Demonstrating the diverse range of uses for Cognitive Grammar, chapters apply this framework to diverse text-types including poetry, narrative fiction, comics, press reports, political discourse and music, as well as exploring its potential for the teaching of language and literature in a range of contexts. Combining cutting-edge research in cognitive, critical and pedagogical stylistics, New Directions in Cognitive Grammar and Style showcases the latest developments in this field and offers new insights into our experiences of literary and non-literary texts by drawing on current understandings of language and cognition."--
Introduction, Marcello Giovanelli (Aston University, UK), Chloe Harrison (Aston University, UK) and Louise Nuttall (University of Huddersfield, UK) -- Part I: Cognitive Grammar in Literary Contexts -- 1. Re-Cognising Free Indirect Discourse, Peter Stockwell (University of Nottingham, UK) -- 2. The Dynamicity of Construal, Embodied Memory and (Mental) Time Travel in Mohsin Hamid's Exit West, Ann Holm (Linnaeus University, Sweden) -- 3. Construal, Blending and Metaphoric Worlds in Francis Harvey's 'The Deaf Woman in the Glen', Nigel Mcloughlin (University of Gloucestershire, UK) -- 4. Guilty Grammar: See-saw Perspective and Morality in a Poem by E.E. Cummings, Louise Nuttall (University of Huddersfield, UK) -- 5. Modelling Intentionality in Cognitive Grammar: Critical and Literary Applications, Matthew Voice (University of Sheffield, UK) -- 6. Subject and Object and The Nature of Reality' in Are You My Mother?, Richard Finn (University of Sheffield, UK) -- Part II: Cognitive Grammar in Non-Literary and Applied Contexts -- 7. "28 Palestinians Die": A Cognitive Grammar Analysis of Mystification in Press Coverage of State Violence on the Gaza Border, Chris Hart (Lancaster University, UK) -- 8. 'Hmmm Yes, but Where's the Beef?' Cognitive Grammar and the Active Audience in Political Discourse, Sam Browse (Sheffield Hallam University, UK) -- 9. 'All The Figures I Used to See': Using Cognitive Grammar to Grapple With Rhythmic and Intertextual Meaning-making in Radiohead's 'Pyramid Song', Clara Neary (University of Chester, UK) -- 10. Cognitive Grammar as a Tool for the Creation of Multimodal Texts, Alison Bown (independent scholar, UK) -- 11. From Theoretical to Pedagogical Grammar: The Challenges of Writing a Textbook on Cognitive Grammar, Marcello Giovanelli and Chloe Harrison (Aston University, UK) -- 12. Recontextualizing Cognitive Grammar for School Teaching, Ian Cushing (Brunel University, UK) -- 13. Towards a Concept-driven Pedagogy: A Model of Linguistic Knowledge, Sally Zacharias (University of Glasgow, UK) -- 14. Coda (Marcello Giovanelli (Aston University, UK), Chloe Harrison (Aston University, UK) and Louise Nuttall (University of Huddersfield, UK).
