Emerging Asian economies and MNCs strategies
1. Introduction / Robert Taylor -- Part I: overall overview -- 2. Emerging Asian economies and MNC strategies: a review of the literature / Bernadette Andreosso-O'Callaghan -- 3. Regional production networks in Asia - a focus on china, japan and korea / Françoise Nicolas -- 4. Selected Asian countries and the food supply chain (between food security and food safety) / Maria Bruna Zolin -- Part II: China and Chinese MNEs -- 5. A correlation of China's economic growth and trade structure induced by transaction costs / Quoqin Zhao and Sam Dzever -- 6. MNCs' offshore R&D co-location strategies: comparison of Western and Asian firms in China / Pei Yu and Jean-Louis Mucchielli -- 7. Chinese MNEs direct investment in the European Union against the background of the Euro crisis / Bernadette Andreosso-O'Callaghan and Christopher Dathe -- 8. Expatriation policies of Chinese emerging MNCs / Jacques Jaussaud and Wei Wei -- Part III: emerging MNEs from other Asian countries -- 9. The transatlantic free trade area: Asean's perspective / Utai Uprasen -- 10. Innovation performance in the small and medium enterprises of India - evidence from the food processing industry / Bhumika Gupta and Jeayaram Subramanian -- 11. The emergence of Samsung as a global ICT player / Nigel Callinan -- 12. Conclusion / Robert Taylor.
Analysing the role of multinational investors in emerging Asian economies and the implications for regional economic integration, this astute study examines the increasing role being played by Asian countries in the global economy. Encompassing a large number of diverse manufacturing and service sectors, this book highlights the cultural and strategic challenges faced by multinational investors in the region in which they invest. It shows that despite high rates of economic growth in Asian countries presenting multinational traders and investors with unparalleled market opportunities, there have been only tentative moves towards regional economic integration. Areas such as trade facilitation, uniform customs clearance, removal of non-tariff barriers and labour deployment issues are yet to be adequately addressed. Multifaceted and multidimensional in approach, Emerging Asian Economies and MNCs Strategies will appeal to students and scholars of Asian economies and business management in the region. Its presentation of the sociopolitical and investment environment will also prove invaluable in informing business investors targeting Southeast Asian markets
