Innovative approaches in diagnosis and management of crop diseases / R.K. Singh (PhD), Gopala (PhD) ; volume 1: The Mollicutes
Recent Insight Into the Detection and Management of Phytoplasma Diseases / Gopala, R. K. Singh, and Kishor P. Panzade -- Techniques for Detection of Viroids / Pankhuri Singhal, Manoj K. Yadav, and Sajad Un Nabi -- CRISPR/Cas9 Genome Editing in Plants for Virus Resistance: Opportunities and Challenges / Vidya R. Hinge, Sandeep. P. Kale, and Rahul L. Chavhan -- Recent Insights in Detection and Diagnosis of Plant Viruses Using Next-Generation Sequencing Technologies / Sajad Un Nabi, Nida Yousuf, Manoj K. Yadav, Devendra K. Choudhary, Dilshaad Ahmad, Shoaib N. Kirmani, Parveez Sheikh, and Iqbal Ahmed -- Innovative Diagnostic Tools for Plant Pathogenic Viruses / Sunil Kumar and Shivam Maurya -- Development of Recombinant Coat Protein for Detection of Banana Viruses / Vimi Louis, K. C. Darsana Dilip, and Alan C. Antony -- Management of Plant Viruses through Host RNAi Defense Mechanism / Nandlal Choudhary -- Diagnosis and Management of Viral Diseases Infecting Ornamental Plants / Nitika Gupta, Pritam Jadhav, and Richa Rai -- Global Status on Diagnosis, Geographical Distribution, and Integrated Disease Management Strategies for Major Viruses Infecting Cucurbitaceous Crops / Somnath K. Holkar, Atul Kumar, and R. K. Jain.
"This book is the first of the 3-volume Innovative Approaches in Diagnosis and Management of Crop Diseases, which provides an abundance of new research and information on major diseases of various crops along with new techniques and technology for the detection of plant pathogens along with appropriate management strategies. Divided into three volumes and with chapters written by renowned and expert scientists working in different areas of plant pathology, the volumes cover important diseases of crops incited by bacteria, fungi, viruses, viroids, phytoplasma, and nematodes. It addresses these disease challenges to commercial field and horticultural crops and their management. Chapters cover recent advances in diagnosis and detection of diseases of rice, wheat, pulses, guava, aonla, cucurbits, ginger, sesame, cotton, pigeonpea, field pea, small millets, maize, and cruciferous vegetables as well as ornamental plants. Innovative Approaches in Diagnosis and Management of Crop Diseases, Volume 1 focuses on the Mollicute class of bacteria. It looks at the detection, diagnosis, and management of phytoplasma diseases and viroids, CRISPR-Cas9 genome editing in plants for virus resistance, next-generation sequencing technologies, and more. Key features: Presents diverse research of leading plant pathologists on detection, diagnosis, and management of crop diseases Shares innovative and emerging techniques for diagnosis and management of major plant diseases Covers a vast array of important crops and their diseases"--
