Design against fracture and failure
Volume is indexed by Thomson Reuters BCI (WoS).The aim of this book is to develop, in the reader, the necessary skills required for designing materials, components and structures so as to resist fracture and failure in engineering applications. In order to achieve this objective, the authors have adopted a combined materials science-fracture mechanics-design approach. Although the material covered is designed for an advanced undergraduate course in metallurgy/materials engineering, students coming from mechanical, civil or aerospace engineering backgrounds will also be able to use this text as a course/reference book. In addition to students, practising engineers and production mangers will also find this book very useful; particular with regard to designing components and machine elements so as to resist fracture and failure in critical applications. The book is divided into 3 parts. Part One is devoted to fundamental studies of design and fracture mechanics. Here, emphasis is placed on the strength of materials and their relationship to failure theories and fail-safe design, the basic concepts of fracture mechanics and design philosophies for guarding against fracture. Part Two deals with fracture and failure mechanisms; with particular reference to metallurgical failures. Part Three, the "heart of the book", develops skill in designing materials and components to resist failure by teaching both the theoretical and practical aspects of failure analysis and its prevention. Here, the emphasis is placed on protecting materials and components against ductile, fatigue, corrosion, DBT and creep failures. This work should be essential reading for all those involved in the field. Huda (materials engineering, U. of Malaya, Malaysia), Robert Bulpett (materials engineering, Brunel U., London), and Kang Yong Lee (mechanical engineering, Yonsei U., Korea) present a textbook for an advanced undergraduate course in metallurgy or material engineering that teaches skills of designing materials, components, and structures against fracture and failure for engineering applications. Their approach combines materials science and fracture mechanics design. First they set out the fundamentals of design and fracture mechanics, then turn to fracture and failure mechanisms, with a particular emphasis on metals. The third section is the heart of the book, however, imparting both theoretical and practice aspects of analyzing and preventing ductile, fatigue, corrosion, ductile-brittle transition, and creep failure. Chapter-end questions and problems are provided, but no index.
