Gender, intersectionality and climate institutions in industrialized states
"This book explores how climate institutions in industrialised countries work to further recognition of social differences and integrate this understanding in climate policy making. With contributions from a range of expert scholars in the field, this volume investigates policy making in climate institutions from the perspective of power related to gender. It also considers other intersecting social factors at different levels of governance, from the global to the local level extending into climate relevant sectors. The authors argue that a focus on climate institutions is important since they not only develop strategies and policies, they also (re)produce power relations, promote specific norms and values, and distribute resources. The chapters throughout draw on examples from various institutions including national ministries, transport and waste management authorities, local authorities as well as the European Union and the UNFCCC regime. Overall, the book demonstrates how feminist institutionalist theory and intersectionality approaches can contribute to an increased understanding about power relations and social differences in climate policy-making and in climate relevant sectors in industrialised states. In doing so, it highlights the challenges of path dependencies, but also reveals opportunities for advancing gender equality, equity and social justice. Gender, Intersectionality and Climate Institutions in Industrialized States will be of great interest to students and scholars of climate politics, international relations, gender studies and policy studies"--
Introduction: Gender, intersectionality and institutions / Annica Kronsell and Gunnhildur Lily Magnusdottir -- Gender in the global climate governance regime : a day late and a dollar short? / Karen Morrow -- EU external climate policy / Gill Allwood -- How to make Germany's climate policy gender-responsive : experiences from research and advocacy / Gotelind Alber, Diana Hummel, Ulrike Röhr, Immanuel Stiess -- Promoting a gender agenda in climate and sustainable development : a civil servant's narrative / Gerd Johnsson-Latham and Annica Kronsell -- Take a ride into the danger zone? Assessing path dependency and the possibilities for instituting change at two Swedish government agencies / Ben E. Singleton and Gunnhildur Lily Magnusdottir -- Towards a climate friendly turn? Gender, culture and performativity in Danish transport policy / Hilda Rømer Christensen and Michala Hvidt Breengaard -- Wasting resources : challenges to implementing existing policies and tools for gender equality and sensitivity in climate change related policy / Susan Buckingham -- Gender analysis of policymaking in construction and transportation : denial and disruption in the Canadian green economy / Bipasha Baruah and Sandra Biskupski-Mujanovic -- Why radical transformation is necessary for gender equality and a zero carbon European construction sector / Linda Clarke and Melahat Sahin-Dikmen -- Addressing climate policy-making and gender in transport plans and strategies. The case of Oslo, Norway / Tanu Priya Uteng, Marianne Knapskog, André Uteng and Jomar Sæterøy Maridal -- When gender equality and earth care meet : ecological masculinities in practice / Robin Hedenqvist, Paul M. Pulé, Vidar Vetterfalk and Martin Hultman -- Pathways for inclusive wildfire response and adaptation in northern Saskatchewan / Heidi Walker, Maureen G. Reed, Amber J. Fletcher -- Concluding remarks / Annica Kronsell and Gunnhildur Lily Magnusdottir.
