How to get published in the best management journals
An increasing number of universities around the globe are rewarding faculty who place their work in top management journals. Drawing on the insights from top journal editors and leading scholars in the field, this book is a treasure trove of tips for publishing in the best management journals. The topics covered include the mysteries of the review process, getting your methodology right, publishing across disciplinary boundaries, the rise of open access journals, publishing ethics, making use of peer review, targeting special issues, sustaining a publications career, and making sense of journal rankings. Drawing on the considerable experience of its authors, and offering candid insights that are often held as secrets among senior faculty, this book takes the reader behind the scenes of the journal review process, making it a must-read for those seeking to advance their career
1. Introduction / Timothy Clark, Mike Wright and David J. Ketchen, Jr. -- Part I The publishing process -- 2. The publishing process: a case study / Petra Andries and Mike Wright 3. Getting published: an editorial and journal ranker's perspective / Geoffrey Wood and Pawan Budhwar -- 4. Ethics and integrity in publishing / Ben R. Martin -- 5. Sustaining a publications career / Mike Wright -- 6. Why publish in Asia management journals? / Daphne W. Yiu 7. Squeezing lemons to make fresh lemonade: how to extract useful value from peer reviews / William H. Starbuck -- Part II resolving practical key issues becoming a scholar -- 8. Rules of the game / Denny Gioia -- 9. Learning by walking through the snow / R. Duane Ireland -- 10. Suggestions for strengthening the discussion section and increasing your odds of publication success / Donald D. Bergh -- 11. You miss 100% of the shots you don't take / Annette L. Ranft and Anne D. Smith -- 12. Why I don't want to co-author with you and what you can do about it / Dave Ketchen -- Getting your methods right -- 13. Are your results really robust? / Bruce T. Lamont -- 14. The reviewers don't like my sample! what can I do? / Brian K. Boyd -- 15. When being normal is not enough: a few thoughts about data, analyses and (the storm of) re-analyses / Philp L. Roth and Wayne H. Stewart Jr. -- Navigating the review process -- 16. Selling your soul to the devil? mistakes authors make when responding to reviewers / Pamela L. Perrewé -- 17. Respond to me - please! / James G. Combs -- 18. Challenging the gods: circumstances justifying the protest of a journal rejection decision / Gerald R. Ferris -- Understanding the journals -- 19. Publishing in the top journals: the secrets for success / Michael A. Hitt -- 20. Hitting your preferred target: positioning papers for different types of journals / Yehuda Baruch -- 21. Targeting journals: a personal journey / Franz W. Kellermanns -- 22. Read the damn article: the appropriate place of journal lists in organizational science scholarship / M. Ronald Buckley -- 23. Publishing in special issues / Timothy Clark -- 24. Using new media to promote and extend published work / Aija Leiponen and Will Mitchell -- 25. Should you publish in an open-access journal? / Charles C. Snow -- Part III publishing across disciplinary boundaries -- 26. Publishing in finance versus entrepreneurship/management journals / Douglas Cumming -- 27. Publishing in management journals: how is it different from economics journals / Saul Estrin and Sumon Kumar Bhaumik -- 28. Publishing in management journals as a social psychologist / Rolf van Dick -- 29. Publishing historical papers in management journals and in business history journals / Steven Toms -- 30. Publishing human resource management research in different kinds of journals / Bill Harley -- 31. Publishing in top international business and management journals / Stephen Tallman and Torben Pederson -- 32. Publishing at the interfaces of psychology and strategic management / Gerard P. Hodgkinson.
