Research handbook of innovation and creativity for marketing management
This groundbreaking Handbook is a collection of the most recent research in innovation and creativity as it applies to marketing management. It uniquely combines the work of innovation and creativity scholars in the same book. Incorporating global research conducted by scholars based all over the world, this book covers various aspects of innovation and creativity, discussing the concepts themselves as well as adopting both a company and consumer perspective. Standout topics discussed in this Handbook include product and service innovation, organizing for innovation, co-innovation, and the impacts of culture on innovation as well as the impacts of personality, the impacts of zen, and the applications of creativity in management and marketing. Eric Shiu presents an integrated discussion of both disciplines, which will inevitably lead to early-stage frameworks of knowledge, new research ideas, and a more holistic understanding of innovation and creativity combined. This Handbook targets readers who are interested in innovation and creativity in general as well as those interested in how the topics apply to marketing management. Business and management students as well as scholars who are researching, teaching or studying a subject that relates to innovation or creativity will be of interest
Introduction / Eric Shiu -- 1. What is innovation? / Søren Harnow Klausen -- 2. Product design innovation - trade-off decisions on functionality, aesthetics and sustainability from the consumer perspective / Eric Shiu -- 3. Innovation performance in service industries - unlocking the intricate effects of strategic orientations and the business model / Colin Cheng -- 4. Organizing for creativity / Farida Rasulzada -- 5. Four decades of engaging customers in product innovation / Mai Khanh Tran -- 6. Developing a conceptual model of the impacts of electronic word-of-mouth on innovation adoption / Yingying Qian -- 7. Cultural influences on innovation resistance : a conceptual framework / Nasir Salari -- 8. The influence of personality on creativity / Eva Hoff and Ingegerd Carlsson -- 9. Chan/Zen of creativity management / Ai-Girl Tan -- 10. Creativity in advertisement : how advertisements strike people - a critical discussion of the role of original ideas and background music / Alessandro Antonietti and Barbara Colombo -- Concluding remarks / Eric Shiu.
