Advanced Techniques for Materials Characterization
Volume is indexed by Thomson Reuters BCI (WoS).Nowadays, an impressively large number of powerful characterization techniques is being used by physicists, chemists, biologists and engineers in order to solve analytical research problems; especially those related to the investigation of the properties of new materials for advanced applications. Although there are a few available books which deal with such experimental techniques, they are either too exhaustive and cover very few techniques or are too elementary to provide a solid basis for learning to use the characterization technique. Moreover, such books usually over-emphasize the textbook approach: being full of theoretical concepts and mathematical derivations, and omitting the practical instruction required in order to permit newcomers to use the techniques. A major objective of the present work is therefore to provide key information that is sufficient to permit the reader to carry out independent research using these characterization techniques. The concise text not only includes classical Diffraction, Spectroscopic and Microscopical techniques but also advanced state-of-the-art techniques such as positron annihilation spectroscopy (PAS), small-angle neutron scattering (SANS), small-angle X-ray scattering (SAXS) and others. The work consists of some 20 chapters; each dedicated to a particular technique, and in the form of a compilation of lectures delivered by dedicated researchers having extensive experience in using the particular technique. Each well-structured chapter consists of a brief introduction to the working principles, ample background references and a summary of the potential of the technique; plus its limitations. A separate section is devoted to instrumentation; with explicit schematics for each component. Other sections describe the pitfalls which can accompany physical measurements, such as those related to sensitivity limits, precision and accuracy; and also the practical difficulties faced by beginners (possible avenues of error incorporation, choice of detector, slits, calibration, mode of standardization etc.) plus useful tips for overcoming these difficulties. Examples are taken from cutting-edge research areas and are discussed at length in order to show how a particular technique can be used to solve such advanced problems.This book will therefore provide the aspiring post-graduate/research student with the flavor of a large number of characterization techniques, and researchers who routinely use these techniques will now have a comprehensive and handy reference guide to important working formulae and practical tips.. Finally, already-expert technicians will be updated concerning the latest applications of the techniques This is altogether an unique and invaluable publication. A team of Indian chemists, materials scientists, and a metallurgist set out the procedures for characterizing new and advanced materials that researchers in any science can use to record and present data in a format that is recognized and can be used in other sciences. They cover diffraction, spectroscopic, compositional characterization, synchrotron and surface, and microscopic techniques. Among the specific topics are studying nuclear and magnetic structures using neutron scattering, insights from solid state nuclear magnetic resonance into structural aspects of zeolites and oxide glasses, the compositional characterization of surfaces with ion beam analysis, synchrotron radiation, and characterizing nanostructures by transmission electron microscopy.
