Neural engineering
This third edition overviews the essential contemporary topics of neuroengineering, from basic principles to the state-of-the-art, and is written by leading scholars in the field. The book covers neural bioelectrical measurements and sensors, EEG signal processing, brain-computer interfaces, implantable and transcranial neuromodulation, peripheral neural interfacing, neuroimaging, neural modelling, neural circuits and system identification, retinal bioengineering and prosthetics, and neural tissue engineering. Each chapter is followed by homework questions intended for classroom use. This is an ideal textbook for students at the graduate and advanced undergraduate level as well as academics, biomedical engineers, neuroscientists, neurophysiologists, and industry professionals seeking to learn the latest developments in this emerging field. Advance Praise for Neural Engineering, 3rd Edition: “A comprehensive and timely contribution to the ever growing field of neural engineering. Bin He’s edited volume provides chapters that cover both the fundamentals and state-of-the-art developments by the world’s leading neural engineers." Dr. Paul Sajda, Department of Biomedical Engineering, Electrical Engineering and Radiology, Columbia University “Neural Engineering, edited by Prof. He, is an outstanding book for students entering into this fast evolving field as well as experienced researchers. Its didactic and comprehensive style, with each chapter authored by leading scientific authorities, provides the ultimate reference for the field.” Dr. Dario Farina, Department of Bioengineering, Imperial College London, London, UK "Neural Engineering has come of age. Major advances have made possible prosthesis for the blind, mind control for quadraplegics and direct intervention to control seizures in epilepsy patients. Neural Engineering brings together reviews by leading researchers in this flourishing field. Dr. Terrence Sejnowski, Salk Institute for Biolgical Studies and UC San Diego.
