Historical understanding: past, present and future
1. Introduction / Zoltèn Boldizsár Simon, (Leiden University, Germany) and Lars Deilie (Bielfeld University, Germany) -- Part I. The historical present/ the present of history. 1. Introduction / Zoltèn Boldizsár Simon, (Leiden University, Germany) and Lars Deilie (Bielfeld University, Germany) Historicity ; 1. Facing the present / François Hartog (EHESS, France) ; 2. Framing the polychronic present / Victoria Fareld (Stockholm University, Sweden) ; 3. Caught between part and future: on the uses of temporality for political exclusion / Moira Pérez (University of Buenos Aires, Argentina) ; 4. Understanding time layers in history: reflections on the stratigraphic mode / Chris Lorenz, (Ruhr University Bochum, Germany) ; 5. Out-of-synchness / Helge Jordheim, (University of Oslo, Norway) -- Part II. Historical studies. 6. Sizing up history / Marnie Hughes-Warrington, (Australian National University, Australia) ; 7. History of the present / Stefanos Geroulanos, (New York University, USA) ; 8. Critical search and critical theory / Jo Guldi, (Southern Methodist University, USA) ; 9. Theses on theory and history / Ethan Kleinberg, (Wesleyan University, USA) Joan Wallach Scott, (Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, USA); Gary Wilder, (CUNY, USA) -- Part III. History and the future. 10. Finally in finite: stop cannibalizing the future / Lars Deile, (Bielefeld University, Germany) ; 11. More-than-human modalities of the future / Marek Tamm, (Tallinn University, Estonia) ; 12. Planetary future, planetary fistory / Zoltǹ Boldizsár Simon, (Leiden University, Germany) and Lars Deilie (Bielfeld University, Germany) ; 13. History with futures: or, Where history of technology, technology futures, and technology assessment come together / Silke Zimmer-Merkle, (Institute for Technology Karlsruhe,Germany) ; 14. The historian as futurist / David Staley, (Ohio State University, USA) ; 15. Anticipating periodization of the future / Cornelius Holtorf, (Linnaeus University, Sweden) ; 16. Temporalities of heritage: constructing future histories / Katie Digan, (Ghent University, Belgium) ; 17. Do we have a problem? No, we got our history! / Franz-Josef Arlinghaus, (Bielefeld University, Germany) ; 18. Reclaiming the past: towards a complex understanding of history / Levke Harders, (Bielefeld University, Germany) ; 19. Historical understanding in theories of reconciliation after violent conflict: some reflections on a great enigma / Berber Bevernage, (Ghent University, Belgium) ; 20. The 'Mirror' metaphor and history's relation with the past / Q. Edward Wang (Rowan University, USA) ; 21. The difficulty of understanding / Jörg van Norden, (Bielefield University, Germany) ; 22. Reenactment's authenticity imperative / Vanessa Agnew, (University of Duisburg-Essen, Germany) ; 23. Double-helix history / Jermoe de Groot (University of Manchester, UK) ; 24. Race and the new universal history / Demetrius Eudell, (Wesleyan University, Germany).
"In this innovative collection of short essays, Historical Understanding explores the current shape of historical understanding today. Boasting a range of contributions from leading scholars, the volume focuses on the current shape of historical understanding, providing an overview of a variety of historical relations to the past, present, and future in the face of socio-political, ecological and technological upheavals. With the continued questioning of the relevance of historical understanding, this book provides a timely discussion of the philosophy of history in light of the current crisis of the humanities. As a compendium of expert views on the current shape of historical understanding, it examines relations to the past, present and future in human endeavors and various domains of human lives. Zoltǹ Boldizsr̀ Simon and Lars Deile have assembled an international team of experts working on historical understanding and the challenges it has increasingly come to face. Organised around three central themes: relations to the past both in academic history and wider sobriety; perceptions perceptions and pressing concerns for our present time and the question of presentism; and the prospect of history without a future and a future without history. This book is an invaluable research tool for students and researchers alike."--
