Advanced introduction to law and renewable energy
Contents: Preface -- 1. Introduction to laws and policies affecting renewable energy -- 2. Renewable energy resources -- 3. Governmental support policies for renewable energy -- 4. National electricity regulatory systems affecting renewable energy projects -- 5. Sub-national utility regulation and policies affecting renewable energy -- 6. Finance of renewable energy projects -- 7. Systems promoting voluntary adoption of renewable energy -- 8. Other legal and regulatory systems with impacts on renewable energy development -- 9. Carbon pricing; conclusion and directions for further policy development -- Index.
"Elgar Advanced Introductions are stimulating and thoughtful introductions to major fields in the social sciences, business and law, expertly written by the world's leading scholars. Designed to be accessible yet rigorous, they offer concise and lucid surveys of the substantive and policy issues associated with discrete subject areas. This clear and concise book provides an overview of how laws and policies around the world are designed to support and accelerate the growth of renewable energy. Throughout, Professor Eisen focuses on how national and sub-national governments have responded to the revolutionary transformation of the world's energy system by developing and implementing support programs for renewable energy. Key features include: Global coverage of the ways in which laws and policies are guiding countries and regions to transitioning to renewable energy Detailed chapters highlighting all of the important regulatory, financial, and technological aspects of renewable energy development Critical insights designed to spotlight on-going challenges and spark discussions about policy development. Intended to serve both as a comprehensive introduction to this vast subject and to prompt readers to inquire further into the specific laws of individual nations, this Advanced Introduction will be beneficial for students, academics, and policymakers interested in the complex legal landscape governing renewable energy"--
