Handbook of methods in leadership research
Contents: Introduction -- Chapter 1: Introduction and overview / Birgit Schyns, Pedro Neves and Rosalie Hall -- Measurement and design -- 2. Implicit measures for leadership research / SinHui Chong, Emilija Djurdjevic and Russell E. Johnson -- 3. Puppet masters in the lab: experimental methods in leadership research / Eric F. Rietzschel, Barbara Wisse and Diana Rus -- 4. Assessing leadership behavior with observational and sensor-based methods: a brief overview / Alexandra (Sasha) R. Cook and Bertolt Meyer -- 5. The contribution of sophisticated facial expression coding to leadership research / Savvas Trichas -- 6. Behavioral genetics and leadership research / Wen-Dong Li, Remus Ilies and Wei Wang -- 7. Biosensor approaches to studying leadership / Aurora J. Dixon, Jessica M. Webb and Chu-Hsiang (Daisy) Chang -- Quantitative analytic approaches -- 8. Mediation analysis in leadership studies: new developments and perspectives / Rex Kline -- 9. Person-oriented approaches to leadership: a roadmap forward / Roseanne J. Foti and Maureen E. McCusker -- 10. Multi-level issues and dyads in leadership research / Francis J. Yammarino and Janaki Gooty -- 11. A social network approach to examining leadership / Markku Jokisaari -- 12. Diary studies in leadership / Sandra Ohly and Viktoria Gochmann -- 13. Modeling leadership-related change with a growth curve approach / Rosalie J. Hall -- Qualitative methods and analytic approaches -- 14. Qualitative content analysis in leadership research: principles, process and application  / Jan Schilling -- 15. Biographical methods in leadership research / Miguel Pina e Cunha, Marianne Lewis, Arménio Rego and Wendy K. Smith -- Summary -- 16. Leadership in the future, and the future of leadership research / Robert G. Lord -- 17. Authors' tips for doing top-quality research -- Index.
This Handbook brings together experts in the field of leadership to provide insights into methods for leadership research. It serves to motivate them to use new research methods to further our knowledge of the leadership field. Illustrating novel approaches to research with sample questions and applications to the field of leadership, this comprehensive and accessible Handbook covers key methodologies in leadership research today, as well as introducing methods that will be invaluable in the future. With chapters written by established leadership scholars, the Handbook of Methods in Leadership Research is arranged to cover three core areas of research: measurement and design, quantitative analytic approaches, and qualitative analytic approaches. The book provides an accessible overview and starting point to discover new methods. All chapters are well researched and provide references for those who want to delve deeper into the topics covered. The volume ends with a summary of tips for each method presented. This book will be an indispensable resource for leadership students, scholars, and practitioners alike, to inspire their future research but also to support their understanding of the quality of research carried out by others
