Handbook of research on leadership and creativity
Contents: 1. Leading for creativity: functions, models, and domains / Michael D. Mumford, Sven Hemlin, and Tyler J. Mulhearn -- Functions -- 2. Leader planning skills and creative performance: integrating past, present, and future / Michael D. Mumford, Logan M. Steele, Tyler J. Mulhearn, Tristan McIntosh, and Logan L. Watts -- 3. Creativity, complexity, and organizational learning: implications for leadership and governance / Robert K. Kazanjian -- 4. How can we advise Achilles? A rehabilitation of the concept of the champion for leadership / Steven E. Markham and Janice Witt Smith -- 5. Leader idea evaluation and follower creativity: challenges, constraints, and capabilities / Logan L. Watts, Tyler J. Mulhearn, E. Michelle Todd, and Michael D. Mumford / 6. Intrinsic motivation and creativity: opening up a black box / Logan M. Steele, Tristan McIntosh, and Cory Higgs -- 7. Leadership's role in creative climate creation / Scott G. Isaksen -- 8. Leading for creativity: how leaders manage creative teams / Roni Reiter-Palmon and Ryan P. Royston -- 9. The social footprint of champions and promoters as creative leaders in innovating and executing / Jan Kratzer and Ingo Michelfelder -- Models -- 10. Leader structure and consideration for innovation / Gina Scott Ligon and Douglas C. Derrick -- 11. Do leaders matter in the long run? A longitudinal study of the importance of LMX and LMX balance for followers' creative performance in research groups / Cajsa Lisa Katniss Olsson -- 12. Transformational leadership and follower creativity: a review of underlying mechanism and boundary conditions / Kathrin Rosing -- 13. Relational leadership and creativity: the effects of respectful engagement and caring on meaningfulness and creative work involvement / John Paul Stevens and Abraham Carmeli -- 14. Collective leadership as a facilitator of innovation / Tamara L. Friedrich and Mingdong (Pauline) Zhong -- 15. All roads lead to Rome: navigating the creative process using the CIP model of leadership / Jeffrey B. Lovelace, Brett H. Neely, Bradley S. Jayne, and Samuel T. Hunter -- 16. Creativity in organizations: the intersectionality of roles, levels of analysis, and types of creativity / Kimberly S. Jaussi -- Domains -- 17. Creative leadership among executives and managers / Gerard Puccio, Marie Mance, and Selcuk Acar -- 18. Leadership and creativity in business / Daan van Knippenberg -- 19. Leadership and creativity capacity in military contexts / Shane Connelly and Stephen J. Zaccaro -- 20. Academic leadership: embracing uncertainty and diversity by building communication and trust / Li Bennich-Björkman -- 21. Creative leadership in the marketing arena / Jeffrey B. Schmidt and Logan L. Watts -- 22. Aesthetic leadership in the arts / Arja Ropo, Donatella De Paoli and Ralph Bathurst -- 23. Creativity stimulating leadership in R&D groups / Sven Hemlin and Cajsa Lisa Katniss Olsson -- Index
The rapid pace of technological change and globalization of products, competition and services have conspired to place a new premium on innovation for firms across the world. Although many variables influence creativity and innovation, the effective leadership of creative teams has proved especially important. This timely Handbook presents the state of the art for what leaders must do to lead creative teams and how they should do it. Handbook of Research on Leadership and Creativity is divided into three major sections. The first section on leadership functions identifies key activities that must be executed by leaders if creative efforts are to prove successful. The next section explains creative leadership using available theoretical models, examining the effects of leader behaviors on follower creativity. The final section investigates specific domains where organizations seek creativity. It covers the creative domains of research and development as well as military and academia, which have not traditionally been viewed as domains where creative leadership is critical. This comprehensive Handbook makes a significant contribution to the literature on creativity and innovation and will be welcomed as an accessible yet authoritative text by students, teachers and researchers alike
