Dictatorship in the nineteenth century : conceptualisations, experiences, transfers
Introduction: "The dictator is coming ..." / Moisés Prieto -- The Napoleonic regime : a paradigm or an anachronism for the new century? / Michael Broers -- Caesarism in the nineteenth century / Markus J. Prutsch -- Dictatorship, Bonapartism, Caesarism : on Marx's Eighteenth Brumaire / Francesca Antonini -- Military dictatorship as the 'reign of the mightier' : Karl Ludwig von Haller's organicist concept of natural order and autocratic rule / Alexander Kruska -- Tyrants or fathers in the bosom of the family? The Argentine caudillos of the postindependence-era as "good dictators" / Stephan Ruderer -- Caudillismo and gender in the Spanish world : the case of Peru, 1810s-1840 / Mónica Ricketts -- Garibaldi and the dictatorship : features and cultural sources / Cesare Vetter -- The epitome of modern dictatorship in the early nineteenth century : Dr. Francia in Paraguay, or : "the Chinese emperor of the West" / Stefan Rinke -- An iconography of early nineteenth-century dictatorship in the Atlantic space / Moisés Prieto.
"Historical research on modern dictatorship has often neglected the relevance of the nineteenth century, instead focusing on twentieth-century dictatorial rules. Dictatorship in the Nineteenth Century brings together scholars of political thought, the history of ideas and gender studies in order to address this oversight. Political dictatorship is often assumed to be a twentieth century phenomenon, but the notion gained currency during the French Revolution. The Napoleonic experience underscored this trend, which was later maintained during the wars of independence in Latin America. Starting from the assumption that dictatorship has its own history within the nineteenth century, separate from the ancient Roman paradigm and twentieth-century totalitarianism, this volume aims at establishing a dialogue between the concepts of dictatorship and the experiences and transfer of knowledge between Latin America and Europe during this period. This book is essential reading for scholars and students of modern history, as well as those interested in political history and the history of dictatorship"--
