Getting started with Oracle Cloud Free Tier : create modern web applications using always free resources
Use this comprehensive guide to get started with the Oracle Cloud Free Tier. Reading this book and creating your own application in the Free Tier is an excellent way to build familiarity with, and expertise in, Oracle Cloud Infrastructure. Even better is that the Free Tier by itself is capable enough and provides all the ingredients needed for you to create secure and robust, multi-tiered web applications of modest size. Examples in this book introduce the broad suite of Always Free options that are available from Oracle Cloud Infrastructure. You will learn how to provision autonomous databases and autonomous Linux compute nodes. And you will see how to use Terraform to manage infrastructure as code. You also will learn about the virtual cloud network and application deployment, including how to create and deploy public-facing Oracle Application Express solutions and three-tier web applications on a foundation of Oracle REST Data Services. The book also includes a brief introduction to using and managing access to Oracle Machine Learning Notebooks. Cloud computing is a strong industry trend. Mastering the content in this book leaves you well-positioned to make the transition into providing and supporting cloud-based applications and databases. You will have the knowledge and skills that you need to deploy modest applications along with a growing understanding of Oracle’s Cloud platform that will serve you well as you go beyond the limits of the Always Free options and take full advantage of all that Oracle Cloud Infrastructure can offer. You will: Know which resources are available for free forever from Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Provision your virtual cloud network Host, manage, and monitor web applications using the freely available components Provision and manage Autonomous Databases and Autonomous Linux Compute Nodes Use and manage access to Oracle Machine Learning Notebooks Automate and manage your infrastructure as code using Terraform Monitor and manage costs when you grow beyond the Always Free platform.
