Light space life : houses by SAOTA
A monograph on leading South African architecture studio SAOTA. Light Space Life is the first monograph from internationally recognized South African architecture studio SAOTA, known for crafting exceptional modern buildings that forge powerful connections to their extraordinary settings. Presenting memorable and distinctive residences selected from its wide-ranging global output, the book celebrates thirty-five years of innovative residential design from Lagos to Los Angeles, including houses from the dramatic South African coast where it all began. SAOTA is led by Stefan Antoni, Philip Olmesdahl, Greg Truen, Philippe Fouché, Mark Bullivant, and Logen Gordon, and has designed luxury residential and commercial projects on six continents. With reference to South African Modernism, and a grounding in the International style, its projects take advantage of wildly beautiful settings, and are rooted in place by the relationship between the building and its site. The practice cites spirit of enquiry and close examination of function and form as hallmarks of its work, as well as the use of the most current technology, including virtual reality, in its design processes. This monograph features twenty-three recent residential projects from around the world, with a particular focus on Africa, illustrated with color photography and including a foreword by SAOTA's client Reni Folawiyo, founder of the West African fashion label, Alara
Light Space Life is the first monograph from internationally recognised South African architecture studio SAOTA, known for crafting exceptional modern buildings that forge powerful connections to their extraordinary settings. Presenting memorable and distinctive residences selected from its wide-ranging global output, the book celebrates thirty-five years of innovative residential design from Lagos to Los Angeles, including houses from the dramatic South African coast where it all began. SAOTA is led by Stefan Antoni, Philip Olmesdahl, Greg Truen, Philippe Fouche, Mark Bullivant and Logen Gordon, and has designed luxury residential and commercial projects on six continents. With reference to South African Modernism, and a grounding in the International style, its projects take advantage of wildly beautiful settings, and are rooted in place by the relationship between the building and its site. The practice cites spirit of enquiry and close examination of function and form as hallmarks of its work, as well as the use of the most current technology, including virtual reality, in its design processes. This monograph features twenty-three recent residential projects from around the world, with a particular focus on Africa, illustrated with colour photography and including a foreword by SAOTA's client Reni Folawiyo, founder of the West African fashion label, Alara
