Research handbook of expatriates
Contents: Foreword / J. Stewart Black -- Part I History of expatriate studies and its current state of play -- 1. Introduction : overview of early expatriate studies, 1952 to 1979 / Yvonne McNulty and Jan Selmer -- 2. The concept of business expatriates / Yvonne McNulty and Chris Brewster -- 3. Expatriates : a thematic research history / Jan Selmer -- Part II Historical and contemporary foundations of expatriate studies -- 4. Expatriate adjustment / Thomas Hippler, Arno Haslberger and Chris Brewster -- 5. Expatriate performance / Leanda Care and Ross Donohue -- 6. Expatriates to and from developed and developing countries / Lisa Clarke, Akhentoolove Corbin and Bettyjane Punnett -- 7. Global talent management : what does it mean for expatriates? / David G. Collings and Michael Isichei -- 8. Expatriates' safety and security during crisis / Anthony Fee -- Part III Types of expatriates -- 9. Self-initiated expatriates / Jan Selmer, Maike Andresen and Jean-Luc Cerdin -- 10. Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex (LGBTI) expatriates / Ruth McPhail -- 11. Inpatriates : a review, synthesis and outlook of two decades of research / Miriam Moeller and B. Sebastian Reiche -- 12. Female expatriates : towards a more inclusive view / Kate Hutchings and Snejina Michailova -- 13. Millennial expatriates / Marian Crowley-Henry and Mary Collins -- 14. International business travellers, short-term assignees and international commuters / Liisa M채kel채, Kati Saarenp채채 and Yvonne McNulty -- Part IV Expatriates in diverse communities -- 15. Military expatriates / Kelly L. Fisher -- 16. Missionary (religious) expatriates / Braam Oberholster and Cheryl Doss -- 17. Expatriate academics : an era of higher education internationalization / Jan Selmer, Jodie-Lee Trembath and Jakob Lauring -- 18. Sports expatriates / Harald Dolles and Birnir Egilsson -- 19. Expatriates in aidland : humanitarian aid and development workers and volunteers / Anthony Fee -- Part V Researching expatriates and expatriates as researchers -- 20. Methodological issues in expatriate studies and future directions / Phyllis Tharenou -- 21. Expatriate research for and with practitioners / Michael Dickmann -- 22. Case study research on expatriates / Julia Richardson -- Part VI Future directions in expatriate research -- 23. Biculturals, monoculturals, and adult third culture kids : individual differences in identities and outcomes / Kathrin J. Hanek -- 24. global families / Min Wan, Romila Singh and Margaret A. Shaffer -- 25. Publishing research on expatriates : advice for PhD. candidates and early career researchers / Jan Selmer and Yvonne McNulty -- Index
Constituting a comprehensive and carefully designed collection of contributions, the Research Handbook of Expatriates provides a nuanced and up-to-date discussion of expatriates. Theoretically broad and groundbreaking, it offers important and contemporary insights into emerging areas of research warranting future consideration. Drawing upon a range of perspectives from the field's most distinguished academics, contributions review the history of the literature in relation to expatriates, from the development of the expatriate construct through to the current state of research on business expatriates. Subsequent chapters progress into detailed examinations of the various types of business expatriates including LGBT, self-initiated expatriates, female assignees, inpatriates, international business travellers and commuters, and millennials. Other themes include expatriate performance, adjustment, expatriates to and from developing countries, global talent management, and expatriates' safety and security. The Research Handbook also covers expatriates in diverse communities such as education, military, missionary, sports and 'Aidland', and provides additional commentaries relating to methodological issues, research with practitioners, case studies, biculturals and ATCKs, and global families. The Research Handbook concludes with publishing advice for PhD and early career researchers. Stimulating insightful new areas of study, this collection is a must read for academics and scholars in the field of expatriate research, international management, global human resource management and business administration. It also offer a wealth of guidance for executives and recruiters along with expatriates and professionals who may expatriate
