From electrons to elephants and elections : exploring the role of content and context
This highly interdisciplinary book, covering more than six fields, from philosophy and sciences all the way up to the humanities and with contributions from eminent authors, addresses the interplay between content and context, reductionism and holism and their meeting point: the notion of emergence. Much of today’s science is reductionist (bottom-up); in other words, behaviour on one level is explained by reducing it to components on a lower level. Chemistry is reduced to atoms, ecosystems are explained in terms of DNA and proteins, etc. This approach fails quickly since we can’t cannot extrapolate to the properties of atoms solely from Schrödinger's equation, nor figure out protein folding from an amino acid sequence or obtain the phenotype of an organism from its genotype. An alternative approach to this is holism (top-down). Consider an ecosystem or an organism as a whole: seek patterns on the same scale. Model a galaxy not as 400 billion-point masses (stars) but as an object in its own right with its own properties (spiral, elliptic). Or a hurricane as a structured form of moist air and water vapour. Reductionism is largely about content, whereas holistic models are more attuned to context. Reductionism (content) and holism (context) are not opposing philosophies — in fact, they work best in tandem. Join us on a journey to understand the multifaceted dialectic concerning this duo and how they shape the foundations of sciences and humanities, our thoughts and, the very nature of reality itself.
Setting the Context: Are you content in your context -- The Incremental Chain of Being -- Does Linguistics Need (Weak) Emergence? -- Contextual Meaning and Theory Dependence -- Scientific Naturalism and Its Faults -- Scientific Emergentism and the Mutualist Revolution: A New Guiding Picture of Nature, New Methodologies and New Models -- Causation in Buddhist Philosophy -- A realistic view of causation in the real world -- Where Is the Top and What Might Go Down? -- Multiplicity, Logical Openness, Incompleteness, and Quasi-ness as Peculiar Non-reductionist Properties of Complexity -- Micro-latency, Holism and Emergence -- Enactive Realism. A first look at a new theoretical synthesis -- Holism and pseudoholism -- Explanatory Emergence, Metaphysical Emergence, and the Metaphysical Primacy of Physics -- Contextual Emergence: Constituents, Context and Meaning -- Mathematics/Theoretical Physics: Contents, Contexts, and Basics of Contextuality -- Content, Context, and Naturalism in Mathematics -- Shared mathematical content in the context of complex systems -- United but not Uniform: Our Fecund Universe -- Probability, Typicality and Emergence in Statistical Mechanics -- The metal: a model for modern physics -- Spacetime Emergence: Collapsing the Distinction Between Content and Context? -- Topological quantum field theory and the emergence of physical space-time from geometry: new insights into the interactions between geometry and physics -- The Electron And The Cosmos: From The Universe Of Fragmented Objects To The Particle-world, Leonardo Chiatti -- “A novel feature of atomicity in the laws of nature”: Quantum theory against reductionism -- Geometric And Exotic Contextuality In Quantum Reality -- Quantum identity, content, and context: from classical to non-classical logic -- Contextual Probability in Quantum Physics, Cognition, Psychology, Social Science, and Artificial Intelligence -- Cognitive Science/Computer Science: Nothing will come of Everything: Software Towers and Quantum Towers -- The Quantum-like Behavior of Neural Networks -- Concepts, Experts, and Deep Learning -- A route to intelligence: oversimplify and self-monitor -- Context is King: Contextual Emergence in Network Neuroscience, Cognitive Science and Psychology -- From Electrons to Elephants: Context and Consciousness -- When two levels collide -- Biology: Some remarks on epigenetics and causality in the biological world -- Can agency be reduced to molecules? -- The Epistemology of Life: Understanding living beings according to a relational ontology -- Holism and Reductionism in the illness/disease debate -- About Context, Fiction, and Schizophrenia -- Humanities and Social Sciences: On the Explanation of Social and Societal Facts -- On the irreversible journey of matter, life and human culture -- Architecture and Big Data: From Scale to Capacity -- Being or Tea? -- Art is Critical.
