Black bodies and transhuman realities : scientifically modifying the black body in posthuman literature and culture
Introduction: Black bodies and transhuman realities /Melvin G. Hill --"European mind...engrafted upon the African constitution": Robert Southey's theory of miscegenation in the transhumanist context /Md. Monirul Islam --The mystery of the invisible drop: Pauline Hopkins's transhumanist challenge to race science /Sarah L. Berry --Arthurian legend, algorithmic code, and racialized technology: technocultural allusions in Ishmael Reed's Flight to Canada /Myungsung Kim --Transmedial posthumanisms: unmaking the black body in Octavia Butler's Kindred and its graphic novel adaptation /Nicholas E. Miller --"A dangerous idea": human enhancement, transhuman desirability, binary identity negotiation, and "mistranthropy" in George S. Schuyler's Black No More /Melvin G. Hill --Transhumanism in Toni Morrison's The bluest eyes /Rae 'Mia Escott --Glossolalia: Lucille Clifton's creative technologies of becoming /Bettina Judd --Soul in the shell: Steven Barnes's Aubry Knight trilogy, black cyborgs, and cyberpunk investigations of technological black bodies /Alexander Dumas J. Brickler IV --Revising the white cyborg: the interstitial heroism of Del Spooner in I, Robot and Charles Gunn in AngelChristian Jimenez --On the (un)becoming of Cindi Mayweather: the transhumanist gynoid performativity of Janelle Monáe /Kwasu D. Tembo.
"Black Bodies and Transhuman Realities: Scientifically Modifying the Black Body in Posthuman Literature and Culture makes a series of valuable contributions to ongoing dialogues surrounding posthuman blackness and Afro-transhumanism. The collection explores the Black body (self) in the context of transhuman realities from a variety of literary and artistic perspectives. These points of view convey the cultural, political, social, and historical implications that frame the space of Black embodiment, functioning as sites of potentiality and pointing toward the possibility of a transcendental Black subjectivity. In this book, many questions concerning the transformation of the Black body are presented as parallels to philosophical and religious inquiries that have traditionally been addressed from a hegemonic viewpoint. The chapters demonstrate how literature, based on its historical and social contexts, contributes to broader thought about Black transcendence of subjectivity in a posthuman framework, exploring interpretations of the "old" and visions of the "new" human."--Publisher's description
