Structural alloys for nuclear energy applications
1. Overview of Structural Materials in Water-Cooled Fission Reactors -- 2. Overview of Reactor Systems and Operational Environments for Structural Materials in Gen-IV Fission Reactors -- 3. Overview of Reactor Systems and Operational Environments for Structural Materials in Fusion Reactors -- 4. Research Tools: Microstructure, Mechanical Properties, and Computational Thermodynamics -- 5. Radiation and Thermomechanical Degradation Effects in Reactor Structural Alloys -- 6. Corrosion Issues in Current and Next-Generation Nuclear Reactors -- 7. Zirconium Alloys for LWR Fuel Cladding and Core Internals -- 8. Austenitic Stainless Steels -- 9. Ni-Based Alloys for Reactor Internals and Steam Generator Applications -- 10. Low-Alloy Steels -- 11. Ferritic and Tempered Martensitic Steels -- 12. Nano-Oxide Dispersion-Strengthened Steels -- 13. Refractory Alloys: Vanadium, Niobium, Molybdenum, Tungsten.
High-performance alloys that can withstand operation in hazardous nuclear environments are critical to presentday in-service reactor support and maintenance and are foundational for reactor concepts of the future. With commercial nuclear energy vendors and operators facing the retirement of staff during the coming decades, much of the scholarly knowledge of nuclear materials pursuant to appropriate, impactful, and safe usage is at risk. Led by the multi-award winning editorial team of G. Robert Odette (UCSB) and Steven J. Zinkle (UTK/ORNL) and with contributions from leaders of each alloy discipline, Structural Alloys for Nuclear Energy Applications aids the next generation of researchers and industry staff developing and maintaining steels, nickel-base alloys, zirconium alloys, and other structural alloys in nuclear energy applications. This authoritative reference is a critical acquisition for institutions and individuals seeking state-of-the-art knowledge aided by the editors' unique personal insight from decades of frontline research, engineering and management.--
