A research agenda for international business and management
1. A research agenda for international business and management: The promises and prospects of thinking outside the box / Mike Geppert and Ödül Bozkurt -- Part I. Revisiting core IB/M theories -- 2. Do we need a theory of externalisation? / Roger Strange -- 3. Behavioural theory and MNE decision-making: Changing the narrative in international business management / Giulio Nardella, Rajneesh Narula and Irina Surdu -- 4. Outward investment from emerging markets: Time for a paradigm shift? / Suma Athreye -- Part II. Changing roles of nation-states and MNEs -- 5. The role of the home country in international business and management research: State of the art and future research directions / Florian Becker-Ritterspach and Khaled Fourati -- 6. The diplomatic imperative: MNEs as international actors / Brent Burmester -- Part III. International management, power relations and ideology -- 7. Treating ideology seriously in international business and management research: A textual analysis of the global "self-management" fad / Leo McCann, Brian Wierman and Edward Granter -- 8. Emerging economy MNCs and their geopolitical embeddedness / Ursula Mense-Petermann -- Part IV. Theorizing and studying new phenomena in IB/M: crisis, slavery and methodology -- 9. Managing the unavoidable: New avenues for research on MNEs and societal crises / Verena Girschik and Jasper Hotho -- 10. Developing parameters for the occurrence of modern slavery: Towards an empirical validation of Crane's (2013) theory of modern slavery / Christoph Dörrenbächer and Lukas Ellermann -- 11. The future of international business research: Theorising on unfolding phenomena in a complex, dynamic world / Peter Zettinig and Niina Nummela -- Part V. Commentary -- 12. Commentary on fulfilling the future agenda in international business / Jonathan P. Doh -- Index.
"Elgar Research Agendas outline the future of research in a given area. Leading scholars are given the space to explore their subject in provocative ways, and map out the potential directions of travel. They are relevant but also visionary. This insightful Research Agenda provides reflections on the state of the international business and management discipline and also highlights important future topics for research. The book especially covers a range of thought-provoking ideas on key subjects, from externalization theory to emerging market economies to societal crises and modern slavery. This Research Agenda also revisits the relevance of core theories; examines the changing roles of nation states and multinationals as well as power relations and ideologies; and discusses new phenomena in international business and management (IB/M). Authors emphasize the merits of and the need for incorporating insights from critical perspectives and, finally, a commentary is given on fulfilling the future agendas laid out in the chapters. This will be a useful read for postgraduate students and researchers of IB/M. Academics in neighbouring subfields including social geography, political science and economic sociology will also find beneficial insights"--
