Quantitative methods and analytical techniques in food microbiology : challenges and health implications
"This volume provides up-to-date and detailed scientific information on recent developments and new approaches in food microbiology, focusing on microbial food pathogens. The volume presents the fundamental aspects of food and microorganisms, and also addresses food systems and measures to prevent and control food, foodborne diseases, etc. According to the editors, every minute, there are about 50,000 cases of gastrointestinal diseases from food-mediated infections and food poisoning, and many individuals, especially children, die from these infections. The most important preventive measures are for the development and continuous implementation of effective interventions to improve overall food safety. The book helps to meet the challenge of food safety issues by focusing on the fundamental aspects of food and microorganisms. Each section consists of detailed information on the particular aspects of each topic, including basic microbiology, safety, pathogenic microorganisms, food conservation, sanitization, and hygiene procedures. The microbial diversity found in food is described from the classification by kingdoms and the main groups of microorganisms present in them. Although the main issue is microbial food pathogens, the book also covers another important aspect of food microbiology: food systems and measurements to prevent and control food, foodborne diseases, etc. Quantitative Methods and Analytical Techniques in Food Microbiology: Challenges and Health Implications will be a valuable resource for scientists, researchers, faculty, students, and others in various sectors in food science and technology. The scope of food microbiology is highly inclusive, as it interacts with all subdisciplines of microbiology, such as public health microbiology, microbial genetics, fermentation technologies, microbial physiology and biochemistry, and food microbiologists have been at the forefront of many microbiological concepts and advances"--
Classification of microorganisms and food microbiology generalities / Alfredo Ivanoe García-Galindo, Leonardo Sepúlveda, and Cristóbal Noé Aguilar -- Risk and safety in microbiology / Josefina Rodríguez and Cristobal N. Aguilar -- Food-microorganism interaction / Nathiely Ramirez-Guzman, Leonardo Sepúlveda, and Cristóbal Noé Aguilar -- Food preservation / Cristian Torres-León and Cristóbal Noé Aguilar -- Food and diseases : what to know in the fight to ensure food safety? / Cristian Torres-León, Leonardo Sepúlveda, and Cristóbal Noé Aguilar -- Microbial products of importance in the food industry / José L. Martínez-Hernández, José Sandoval-Cortes, and Cristóbal Noé Aguilar -- Hygiene, control, and inspection in foods / José Sandoval-Cortes, José L. Martínez-Hernández, and Cristóbal Noé Aguilar -- Molecular methods for microorganism detection / Adriana C. Flores-Gallegos, Raúl Rodríguez-Herrera, and Cristóbal Noé Aguilar -- New molecular methods for the detection of microorganisms / Raúl Rodríguez-Herrera and Cristóbal Noé Aguilar -- Fungal production and function of phytase / Alberto A. Neira-Vielma, Cristóbal Noé Aguilar, Anna Ilyina, Georgina Michelena-Álvarez, and José L. Martínez-Hernández -- Advances in the biotechnological process for obtaining ellagic acid from rambutan / Nadia D. Cerda-Cejudo, Jose J. Buenrostro-Figueroa, Leonardo Sepúlveda, Cristian Torres-León, Mónica L. Chávez-González, Cristóbal Noé Aguilar, and J.A. Ascacio-Valdés -- Novel methods of food preservation / C. Guillermo Valdivia-Nájar and Lorena Moreno-Vilet -- Strategies during citrus waste utilization : fermentative route for single-cell protein production / Andrea Guadalupe Flores-Valdés, Gloria A. Martínez-Medina, José Luis Martínez-Hernández, Anna Iliná, Cristóbal Noé Aguilar, Nathiely Ramírez Guzmán, and Mónica L. Chávez-González -- Impact of functional ingredients from plant food byproducts on human gut microbiota / Ricardo Gómez-García, Débora A. Campos, Ana R. Madureira, and Manuela Pintado -- Trends, analytical approaches, and applications of the Vitek system for identification and classification of bacteria and yeasts / Alaa Kareem Niamah, Shayma Thyab Gddoa Al-Sahlany, Deepak Kumar Verma, Mamta Thakur, Balaram Mohapatra, Smita Singh, Mónica L. Chávez-González, Cristóbal Noé Aguilar, Ami R. Patel, and Kolawole Banwo.
