Sports through the lens of economic history
From professional team sports to international events such as the Olympics and Tour de France, the modern sports industry continues to attract a large number of spectators and participants. This book, edited by Richard Pomfret and John K. Wilson analyzes the economic evolution of sports over the last 150 years, from a pastime activity to a big business enterprise. It begins at a time when entrepreneurs and players first started making money from professional sports leagues, through to the impact of radio and TV in the twentieth century, and onto the present day. Using examples from sports across the world, the chapters cover such important issues as player migration, labor market restrictions, stadium arrangements and the rise and fall of workplace provisions. Unlike most sports economic texts, the contributors featured here provide insights into the historical origins of many practices and policies peculiar to the industry. This historical perspective casts light onto the development of practices, such as labor market regulations and public policies, which have become more prevalent in the modern age. The non-technical, user-friendly nature of this book will appeal to many students, particularly those enrolled in sports economics courses - a field of study which is increasingly common. Academics will also find this book to be a timely reference for their research and teaching
1. Sports economics and the sports industry: perspectives in economic history / John K. Wilson -- 2. The evolution of professional team sports / Richard Pomfret -- 3. The very short tenure of foreign players in Japanese professional baseball, 1951-2004 / Akihiko Kawaura and Sumner La Croix -- 4. An economic history of the Tour de France, 1903-2015 / Jean-François Mignot -- 5. The relationship between crowd attendance and competitive balance - evidence from the SANFL 1920-83 / John K. Wilson -- 6. Ground sharing between cricket and football in Australia / Lionel Frost, Margaret Lightbody, Abdel K. Halabi, Amanda Carter and Luc Borrowman -- 7. Workers' playtime: developing an explanatory typology of work-associated sport in Britain / Wray Vamplew -- 8. Ethnic inequality in professional sport: a question of discrimination in the National Hockey League draft / John Cranfield, Kris Inwood and J. Andrew Ross -- 9. Epilogue / Richard Pomfret.
