Discourse structuring markers in English : a historical constructionalist perspective on pragmatics
Foundations. Cognitive linguistics and construction grammar -- A diachronic construction grammar view of language change -- Discourse structuring markers and some generalizations about how they arise -- Alternative hypotheses about the rise of discourse markers -- Case studies. The development of elaborative markers -- The development of contrastive markers -- The development of markers of "digressive" topic shift -- The development of markers of return to a prior topic -- The development of combination of DMs -- Three open issues for a historical constructionalist perspective on pragmatics. Subjectification, intersubjectification, and the rise of DSMs -- Clausal positions of DMs -- Changes in networks and nodes -- Conclusion and prospects.
"This book is a contribution to the growing field of diachronic construction grammar. Focus is on corpus evidence for the importance of including conventionalized pragmatics within construction grammar and suggestions for how to do so. The empirical domain is the development of Discourse Structuring Markers in English such as after all, also, all the same, by the way, further and moreover (also known as Discourse Markers). The term Discourse Structuring Markers highlights their use not only to connect discourse segments but also to shape discourse coherence and understanding. Monofunctional Discourse Structuring Markers like further, instead, moreover are distinguished from multifunctional ones like after all and by the way. Drawing on usage-based work on constructionalization and constructional changes, the book is in three parts: foundational concepts, case studies, and currently open issues in diachronic construction grammar. These open issues are how to incorporate the concepts subjectification and intersubjectification into a constructional account of change, whether position in a clause is a construction, and the nature of constructional networks and how they change"--
