Plant abiotic stress physiology / edited by Tariq Aftab (PhD), Khalid Rehman Hakeem (PhD) ; volume 2: Molecular advancements
1. --Plant-environment interaction in developing crop species resilient to climate change --2. --Genomics approaches to study abiotic stress tolerance in plants --3. --Role of phenomics in screening abiotic stress tolerance in plants --4. --Genetic regulation, biosynthesis, and the roles of osmoprotective compounds in abiotic stress tolerance in plants --5. --Plant growth regulators and their interaction with abiotic stress factors --6. --Role of abscisic acid in abiotic stress condition and its management --7. --Management of abiotic stress conditions by salicylic acid --8. --Ethylene signaling during leaf senescence --9. Role of methyl jasmonate in mitigating plant stress and its interaction with salicylic acid --10. --Harnessing CRISPR/Cas system for resistance against abiotic stresses in rice: recent advances, applications, challenges, and prospects --11. --Emerging roles of osmoprotectants in the abiotic stress tolerance of plants.
"Plant Abiotic Stress Physiology highlights the various innovative and emerging techniques and molecular applications that are currently being used in plant abiotic stress physiology. Volume 2 of this 2-volume set focuses on state-of-the-art molecular advances for the mitigation of abiotic stress in plants. With contributions from specialists in the field, the volume discusses how plants have developed diverse physiological and molecular adjustments to safeguard themselves under challenging conditions and how emerging new technologies can utilize these plant adaptations to enhance plant resistance. These include using plant-environment interactions in develop crop species that are resilient to climate change, taking genomics and phenomics approaches for the study of abiotic stress tolerance, employing methyl jasmonate and salicylic acid, harnessing the CRISPR/CAS system to strengthen plant stress resistance, and more. Agriculture today faces countless challenges to meet the rising need for sustainable food supplies and guarantees of high-quality nourishment for a quickly mounting population. To assure sufficient food production, it is necessary to address the challenging environmental circumstances that are causing cellular oxidative stress in plants due to abiotic factors, which play a defining role in shaping yield of crop plants. This volume, along with Plant Abiotic Stress Physiology: Volume 1: Responses and Adaptations, helps to meet these challenges by providing a rich source of information on plant abiotic stress physiology and effective management techniques"--
