Handbook of research on employee voice
"This thoroughly revised second edition presents up-to-date analysis from various academic streams and disciplines that illuminate our understanding of employee voice from a range of different perspectives. This wide-ranging Handbook demonstrates that research on employee voice has gone beyond union and non-union voices to build a wider and deeper knowledge base. Exploring the previously under-represented paradigm of the organisational behaviour approach, new chapters take account of a broader conceptualisation of employee voice. Written by expert contributors, this Handbook explores the meaning and impact of employee voice for various stakeholders and considers the ways in which these actors engage with voice processes such as collective bargaining, individual processes, mutual gains, task-based voice and grievance procedures. This comprehensive Handbook will enable the reader to engage with the debates surrounding employee voice and help extend our overall understanding of what goes on in workplaces at the heart of modern economies. This second edition of the Handbook of Research on Employee Voice will be a vital resource for academics and students researching human resource management, organisational behaviour and employment relations, while its forward thinking approach will also appeal to policy makers, employers and union officials"--
Contents: Part I. Perspectives and theories of voice -- 1. Employee voice: Bridging new terrains and disciplinary boundaries / Adrian Wilkinson, Tony Dundon, Jimmy Donaghey and Richard Freeman -- 2. Employee voice before Hirschman: Its early history, conceptualization, and practice / Bruce E. Kaufman -- 3. Hirschman and voice / Matthew M.C. Allen -- 4. Employee voice and the transaction cost economics project / Paul Willman, Alex Bryson, Rafael Gomez and Tobias Kretschmer -- 5. Industrial democracy in the twenty-first century / Catherine Casey -- 6. Labour process / Abigail Marks and Shiona Chillas -- 7. Employee voice and silence in organizational behavior / Chad T. Brinsfield and Marissa Edwards -- Part II. Actors -- 8. Managing voice: An employers perpective / Peter Holland -- 9. Line managers / Keith Townsend and Paula Mowbray -- 10. Union voice / Sarah Kaine -- 11. The missing employee in employee voice research / Dionne M. Pohler, Andrew A. Luchak, & J.M. Harmer -- 12. The expression of worker voice through civil society organizations / Edmund Heery and Stephen Williams -- 13. Employee voice and democracy: A critique of national and transnational laws / Glenn Patmore -- Part III. Voice processes -- 14. Collective bargaining / Virginia Doellgast and Chiara Benassi -- 15. Works councils / Werner Nienhüser -- 16. Joint consultative committees / Amanda Pyman -- 17. Individual voice: Grievance and other procedures / David Lewin -- 18. High performance work systems and employee voice / Bill Harley -- 19. Task-based voice and teamworking / Stephen Procter, Jos Benders and Jonas Ingvaldesen -- 20. Workplace partnership / Stewart Johnstone -- 21. Voice in the mutual gains organization / Ariel C. Avgar, Stacey Sekwao, Phoebe Strom -- 22. Non-union employee representation / Tony Dobbins and Tony Dundon -- 23. Employee and collective voice engagement: Being psychologically present when speaking up at work / Jamie A. Gruman and Alan M. Saks -- 24. Individual voice in informal and formal contexts in organizations / Deirdre O'Shea and Kevin Murphy -- 25. Whistleblowing / Kate Kenny, Wim Vandekerckhov and Muhammad Irfan -- Part IV. Evaluating voice 26. Voice across borders: Comparing and explaining the dynamic of participation in a context of change / Maria González Menéndez and Miguel Martínez Lucio -- 27. Employee silence / Niall Cullinane and Jimmy Donaghey -- 28. Diversity management and missing voices / Jawad Syed -- 29. The internet, the web and social media: The promise and practice of e-voice / Louise Thornthwaite, Craig Macmillan and Alison Barnes -- 30. Charting voice in a developing economy: The case of China / Jenny Chan -- Part V. Future directions on voice -- 31. Workplace voice: Assessing its impact on the individual and the organization / Brian Klaas -- 32. Integrating voice : Voice within hospitals: Reciprocal relationship between employee voice related to patient care with working conditions voice / Adrian Wilkinson, Michael Barry, Paula Mowbray and Ariel Avgar -- 33. The future of employee voice / Senia Kalfa and John W. Budd -- Index.
