Handbook on electricity markets
"With twenty-two chapters written by leading international experts, this volume represents the most detailed and comprehensive Handbook on electricity markets ever published. It covers all dimensions of electricity markets: wholesale and retail; renewable electricity sources; the electrification of mobility, heating and cooling; and recent innovations such as distributed generation, electrical energy storage, demand response and digital platforms that are disrupting the industry. The benefits, as well as the limits, of open markets and competition are assessed at the level of underlying principles and with reference to specific cases, including the UK, PJM Interconnection, Texas, Australia, Scandinavia, continental Europe and China. The details of electricity market designs are analysed and discussed. The book also considers new emerging business models, as well as the impact of electricity sector policy priorities such as universal access and deep decarbonization. This Handbook is intended to be used and useful. Students and young professionals will find the information they need to enter the field. Researchers, experienced professionals and public decision-makers will get a comprehensive update on the topical issues in electricity markets that will guide them through the important developments the sector is witnessing"--
Contents: Introduction to the handbook on electricity markets / Jean-Michel Glachant, Paul L. Joskow and Michael G. Pollitt -- Part I: Taking stock: the legacy -- 2. Strengths and weaknesses of traditional arrangements for electricity supply / Richard Schmalensee -- 3. Optimal wholesale pricing and investment in generation: The basics / Paul L. Joskow and Thomas-Olivier L.autier -- 4. Wholesale electricity market design / Frank A. Wolak -- 5. The evolution of competitive retail electricity markets / Stephen Littlechild -- 6. Strengths and weaknesses of the British market model / David Newbery -- 7. Strengths and weaknesses of the pjm market model / William W. Hogan -- 8. Ercot: Success (so far) and lessons learned / Ross Baldick, Shmuel S. Oren, Eric S. Schubert and Kenneth Anderson -- 9. Lessons from australia's national electricity market 1998-2018: Strengths and weaknesses of the reform experience / Paul Simshauser -- 10. Strengths and weaknesses of the nordic market model / Chlo. Le Coq and Sebastian Schwenen -- 11. The evolution of the European model for electricity markets / Fabien Roques -- Part II: Adapting to new technologies and new policy priorities -- 12. New technologies on the supply side / Nils May and Karsten Neuhoff -- 13. New technologies on the demand side / Fereidoon Sioshansi -- 14. Tools and policies to promote decarbonization of the electricity sector / Kathryne Cleary, Carolyn Fischer and Karen Palmer -- 15. Shifting supply as well as demand: The new economics of electricity with high renewables / Richard Green -- 16. The future design of the electricity market / Michael G. Pollitt -- 17. New business models in the electricity sector / Jean-Michel Glachant -- 18. Electrifying transport: Issues and opportunities / Bentley C. Clinton, Christopher R. Knittel and Konstantinos Metaxoglou -- 19. Electrification of residential and commercial heating / Mathilde Fajardy and David M. Reiner -- 20. Harnessing the power of integration to achieve universal electricity access: The case for the integrated distribution framework / Ignacio J. P.rez-Arriaga, Divyam Nagpal, Gr.goire Jacquot and Robert Stoner -- 21. Reforming China's electricity industry: National aspiration, bureaucratic empires, local interests / Xu Yi-chong -- 22. The evolution of electricity sectors in Africa: Ongoing obstacles and emerging opportunities to reach universal targets / Vivien Foster, Anton Eberhard and Gabrielle Dyson -- Index.
