The XVIII International Conference on Strangeness in Quark Matter (SQM 2019)
This book focuses on new experimental and theoretical advances concerning the role of strange and heavy-flavour quarks in high-energy heavy-ion collisions and in astrophysical phenomena. The topics covered include • Strangeness and heavy-quark production in nuclear collisions and hadronic interactions, • Hadron resonances in the strongly-coupled partonic and hadronic medium, • Bulk matter phenomena associated with strange and heavy quarks, • QCD phase structure, • Collectivity in small systems, • Strangeness in astrophysics, • Open questions and new developments. .
Part 1: Introduction -- Chapter 1. ROY GLAUBER: In Memoriam The Glauber Model in High Energy Nucleus-Nucleus Collisions -- Part 2: Highlights from theory and experiments -- Chapter 2. Recent results from HADES -- Chapter 3. BM@N First Results -- Chapter 4. Hyperons in thermal QCD from the lattice -- Chapter 5. Recent results from NA61/SHINE -- Chapter 6. Recent Heavy-Flavor Results from STAR -- Chapter 7. Recent results from ATLAS: Onia, heavy-ﬂavor, and more -- Chapter 8. Recent Results on Heavy Flavour from CMS -- Chapter 9. Recent results on Light Flavor from STAR -- Chapter 10. High Energy Hadron Production, Self-Organized Criticality and Absorbing State Phase Transition -- Chapter 11. Recent results in small systems from CMS -- Part 3: Heavy Flavour -- Chapter 12. D meson sensitivity to a system size scan at LHC -- Chapter 13. Beauty production with ALICE at the LHC -- Chapter 14. Measurement of non-strange D-meson production and azimuthal anisotropy in Pb-Pb collisions with ALICE at the LHC -- Chapter 15. Transport properties of Heavy Quarks and their correlations to the bulk dynamics and the initial Electromagnetic field -- Chapter 16. Measurements of open-charm hadrons in Au+Au collisions at √sNN = 200 GeV by the STAR experiment -- Chapter 17. Overview on hidden heavy ﬂavour results -- Chapter 18. J/ψ production measurements in pp, p–Pb and Pb–Pb collisions at midrapidity at the LHC -- Chapter 19. Quarkonia and its fate in the anisotropic hot QGP medium -- Chapter 20. Quarkonium measurements at forward rapidity with ALICE at the LHC -- Chapter 21. AdS/CFT calculations for rapidity dependence of non-prompt J/Ψ suppression at LHC -- Chapter 22. Heavy-ﬂavour jet production and charm fragmentation with ALICE at LHC -- Part 3: Strangeness and Light Flavour -- Chapter 23. Strangeness enhancement from dynamical core-corona initialisation model -- Chapter 24. Production of light flavor hadrons measured by PHENIX at RHIC -- Chapter 25. Strange and non-strange light-flavour hadron production in Pb-Pb and p-Pb collisions at LHC energies with ALICE -- Chapter 26. Chemical equilibration of QGP in hadronic collisions -- Chapter 27. Strangeness and light fragment production at high baryon density -- Chapter 28. Cross-correlators of conserved charges in QCD -- Chapter 29. Parton-Hadron-Quantum-Molecular Dynamics (PHQMD) - A Novel Microscopic N-Body Transport Approach for Heavy-Ion Dynamics and Hypernuclei Production -- Chapter 30. ΛK femtoscopy in Pb–Pb collisions at √sNN = 2.76 TeV measured with ALICE.
