Bulgarian Literature as World Literature
Foreword - Bulgaria and Its Worlding: A Historical Perspective (Maria Todorova, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, USA) -- Acknowledgments -- Introduction - Modern Bulgarian Literature: Being in the World ( Mihaela P. Harper, Bilkent University, Turkey, and Dimitar Kambourov, Trinity College Dublin, Ireland) -- Part I -- Histories: In Search of a National Profile of World Literature -- 1. Medieval Bulgarian Literature as World Literature (Diana Atanassova, Sofia University, Bulgaria) -- 2. Bulgarian Literature in a "Romaic" Context ( Raymond Detrez, University of Ghent, Belgium) -- 3. The Bulgarian Literary Space and Its Languages: Monolingual Canon, Plural Writings ( Marie Vrinat-Nikolov, INALCO Paris, France) -- 4. Post-Liberation Literary Quests: From National Nostalgia to Social Anger and Modernist Dreams ( Milena Kirova, Sofia University, Bulgaria) -- 5. Does Bulgarian Literature Have a Place within World Literature? ( Amelia Licheva, Sofia University, Bulgaria) -- Part II -- Geographies: Bulgarian Literature as Un/common Ground within and without -- 6. Europeanization or Lunacy: The Idea of World Literature and the Autonomization of the Bulgarian Literary Field ( Boyko Penchev, Sofia University, Bulgaria) -- 7. Anthology Anxieties: Maturity and Mystification ( Bilyana Kourtasheva, New Bulgarian University, Bulgaria) -- 8. Anomaly and Distext in Bulgarian Literature: Kiril Krastev (Vassil Vidinsky, Maria Kalinova, and Kamelia Spassova, Sofia University, Bulgaria) -- 9. Telling History in Many Ways: The Recent Past as Literary Plot (Ani Burova, Sofia University, Bulgaria) -- 10. Between the Local and the Global: Aporia in Miroslav Penkov's East of the West ( Mihaela P. Harper, Bilkent University, Turkey) -- 11. Bulgarian Literature: Beyond World Literature into Global Literature (Emiliya Dvoryanova, New Bulgarian University, Bulgaria) -- Part III -- Economies: Bulgarian Literature on the Global Market -- 12. Tame Domesticity and Timid Trespasses: Travels and Exoduses ( Todor Hristov, Sofia University, Bulgaria).
"Explores Bulgarian literature's advent from the standpoint of its internal relations to the world"--
13. The End of Self-Colonization: Contemporary Bulgarian Literature and Its Global Condition ( Alexander Kiossev, Sofia University, Bulgaria) -- 14. Bulgarians Writing Abroad: Import and (Re)export of the Outsourced Production ( Dimitar Kambourov, Trinity College Dublin, Ireland) -- 15. In Between and Beyond: Diaspora Writers and Readers ( Yana Hashamova, Ohio State University, USA) -- 16. Factotum and Fakir: The Translator of Bulgarian Literature into English ( Angela Rodel, Translator, Bulgaria) -- Part IV -- Genetics: Bulgarian Literature's Heredities, Affinities, and Prospects -- 17. Bulgarian Literature's Localism and (Im)mobility ( Darin Tenev, Sofia University, Bulgaria) -- 18. 1963, 2016: Two Perspectives on Blaga Dimitrova (Julia Kristeva, Université de Paris VII, France) -- 19. Bulgarian Women's Literature: Plots and Stories (Miglena Nikolchina, Sofia University, Bulgaria) -- 20. Writing from the Saddest Place in the World (Georgi Gospodinov, Writer, Bulgaria) -- 21. Bulgarian Liveliness ( Jean-Luc Nancy, European Graduate School, Switzerland) -- 22. Haide : On a Life that Feels Itself Live (A Response to Jean-Luc Nancy's "Bulgarian Liveliness") (Cory Stockwell , Bilkent University, Turkey) -- Afterword - Beyond "Minor Literatures": Reflections on World Literature (and on Bulgarian) ( Galin Tihanov, Queen Mary University of London, UK) -- Select Bibliography -- Notes on Contributors -- Index.
