Plant microbiome paradigm
Interaction of Epiphyllic Bacteria with Plant Cuticles -- Plant Microbiome and Its Important in Stressful Agriculture -- Plant-Microbe Interactions: Applications for Plant‐Growth Promotion and In-Situ Agri-Waste Management -- Plant-Microbe-Metal Interactions: A Biochemical and Molecular Analysis for Phytoremediation -- Ecosystem Diversity as a Function of Plant and Soil-Microbe Interactions -- Plant Growth Promoting Potentials of Endophytic Fungi for the Management of Agricultural Crops and Grasses -- Biological Control of Plant Diseases: Opportunities and Limitations -- Circadian Redox Rhythms Play an Important Role in Plant-Pathogen Interaction -- Rhizospheric Microorganisms for the Remediation of Contaminants for Ecological Restoration -- The Rhizosphere Microbiome: Microbial Communities and Plant Health -- On the Possibility of Accelerating Succession by Manipulating Soil Microorganisms -- Composition and Dynamics of Microbial Communities in Fly Ash-Amended Soil -- Molecular Insight into Plant-Fungal Pathogen Interaction: Emerging Trends and Implication in Designing Climate Smart Filed Crops -- Biochemical Dynamics of Plant Microbe Interactions -- Endophytic Secondary Metabolites for Biological Control - A Latest Perspective.
This book provides a comprehensive overview of the current state of knowledge on plant-microbiome interactions and associations. It covers all major mechanistic approaches used to investigate microbes’ impacts on plant growth promotion, disease control and health. The industrial manufacture of nitrogen currently accounts for roughly 2% of the world’s total energy consumption. Microbial products are expected to reduce the need for costly fertilizers, as well as chemical pesticides and fungicides. While beneficial microorganisms are increasingly being used in agriculture, abiotic and biotic stresses such as heat, drought, cold, and salt can quickly kill or render them useless in the field. However, discovering new and better treatments is a lengthy process due to the considerable microbial diversity found in soils. Researchers have now proposed using biotechnological approaches to accelerate the process of microbial technology development. The fact that plant-associated microbes stimulate plant growth and development is well known, as the examples of rhizobia and mycorrhizal fungi show. The mechanisms by which these microorganisms maintain plant growth include the production of phytohormones, fixation of nitrogen, and the mobilization of phosphorus and minerals. The plant microbiome is also involved in pathogen suppression, and especially the root microbiome acts as a protective shield against soil-borne pathogens. A special feature of this book is its multidisciplinary approach, spanning from plant microbiology/biocontrol, fungal and bacterial endophytes, plant physiology, to biochemistry, proteomics and genomics. It is ideally suited for researchers and student of agri-biotechnology, soil biology and fungal biology.
