Beyond uneconomic growth : economics, equity and the ecological predicament
This engaging book brings together leading ecological economists to collectively present a definitive case for looking beyond economic growth as the sole panacea for the world's ecological predicament. Grounded in physics, ecology, and the science of human behavior, contributors show how economic growth itself has become "uneconomic" and adds to a ravaging of both social and ecological cohesion. Guided by a clear moral vision that prioritizes sustainability and justice over profit, the authors provide a blueprint for an economy that replaces quantitative growth with qualitative improvement to enhance human welfare while restoring degraded ecosystems. They present solutions for many of today's challenges, ranging from global climate change and biodiversity loss to natural resource depletion. This interdisciplinary work not only relates ecological economics theory to the most urgent predicaments of the contemporary world, but also pays tribute to the work of Herman Daly, a leading pioneer of modern ecological economics. Researchers and faculty studying and teaching ecological economics and environmental studies will find value in this unprecedented book. It will also be of interest to practitioners working to solve a variety of global environmental issues
In memoriam for Robert Goodland -- Part I Introduction -- 1. The foundations for an ecological economy: an overview / Joshua Farley -- 2. The world in over-shoot: a celebration of Herman Daly's contributions to ecological economics - the science of sustainability / Robert Goodland -- 3. Toward a sustainable and desirable future: a 35 year collaboration with Herman Daly / Robert Costanza -- Part II Changing the paradigm: what is biophysically possible, and how do humans behave? -- 4. Population, resources, and energy in the global economy: a vindication of Herman Daly's vision / Jonathan M. Harris -- 5. On limits / Arild Vatn -- 6. Toward a science-based theory of behavior: building on Georgescu-Roegen / John Gowdy -- 7. Denying Herman Daly: why conventional economics will not embrace the Daly vision / William E. Rees -- Part III Changing the goals: what is socially, psychologically and ethically desirable? -- 8. The importance of just distribution in a 'full' world / Philip Lawn -- 9. Hicksian income, welfare, and the steady state / Salah El Serafy -- Part IV Changing the rules: institutions for a sustainable and desirable future -- 10. Ecological and Georgist economic principles: a comparison / Clifford Cobb -- 11. Making money / John B. Cobb, Jr. -- Part V The steady-state economy -- 12. The steady-state economy / Peter A. Victor -- 13. Socially sustainable economic degrowth / Joan Martinez Alier -- 14. Politics for a steady state economy / Brian Czech -- Part VI Conclusions -- 15. The unfinished journey of ecological economics: toward an ethic of ecological citizenship / Peter G. Brown.
