Handbook of research methodologies and design in neuroentrepreneurship
Contents: Preface -- 1. Introduction / Mellani Day, Mary C. Boardman and Norris Krueger -- Part I -- Neuroscience principles, techniques and tools -- 2. Brain-driven entrepreneurship research: -- A Review and research agenda / Víctor Pérez-Centeno -- 3. Human psychophysiological and genetic approaches in neuroentrepreneurship / Marco Colosio, Cristiano Bellavitis and Alexey Gorin -- 4. Unpacking neuroentrepreneurship: conducting entrepreneurship research with EEG technologies / Martin De Holan and Cyril Couffe -- 5. A brief primer on using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) in entrepreneurship research / M. K. Ward, Crystal Reeck and William Becker -- 6. Experimental methodological principles for entrepreneurship research using neuroscience techniques / Víctor Pérez-Centeno -- Part II -- Neuroscience applications - entrepreneurial judgement, decision-making and cognition -- 7. Entrepreneurial return on investment through a neuroentrepreneurship lens / Mellani Day and Mary C. Boardman -- 8. The cognitive neuroscience of entrepreneurial risk: -- conceptual and methodological challenges / Kelly G. Shaver, Leon Schjoedt, Angela Passarelli and Crystal Reeck -- 9. A few words about entrepreneurial learning, training and brain plasticity / Aparna Sud -- 10. A few words about Neuro-experimental designs for the study of emotions and cognitions in entrepreneurship / Theresa Treffers -- 11. Which tool should I use? Neuroscientific technologies for brain-driven entrepreneurship researchers / Víctor Pérez-Centeno -- 12. A few words about what neuroentrepreneurship can and cannot help us with / Sean Guillory, Mary C. Boardman and Mellani Day -- Index.
This Handbook provides an overview of neuroscience-driven research methodologies and how those methodologies might be applied to theory-based research in the nascent field of neuroentrepreneurship. A key challenge of this field is that few neuroscientists are trained as entrepreneurship scholars and few entrepreneurship scholars are trained as neuroscientists, but this book skillfully bridges that gap. Expert contributors include concrete examples of new ways to conduct research in their contributions, which have the potential to shed light onto areas such as decision making and opportunity recognition and allow neuroentrepreneurs to ask different, perhaps better, questions than ever before. This Handbook also presents current thinking and examples of pioneering work, serves as a reference for those wishing to incorporate these methods into their own research, and provides several helpful discussions on the nature of answerable questions using neuroscience techniques. Neuroentrepreneurship is an important, emerging field for neuroscientists and entrepreneurship scholars alike. For the former audience, this book presents concrete research questions and entrepreneurship applications; for the latter, it serves as a primer and introduction to neuroscientific methods. Graduate students studying entrepreneurship, and practitioners who are keen to promote innovation and entrepreneurial skills in their leadership, will also find this Handbook to be of interest
