Standing up to climate change : creating prospects for a sustainable future in rural Iran
In Iran, climate change combined with low adaptation capacity has an unparalleled impact on eco-systems as well as human livelihoods. The Roodasht region, in the lower part of the Zayandeh Rud basin in Central Iran, is severely affected by water scarcity, desertification and land degradation. This book describes the effects this has on the environment and society, analyzes the degree of vulnerability and suggests possible ways to improve land and water management. This book provides comprehensive and interdisciplinary insights into the environmental and social situation in the region, as well as possible solutions to deal with the current challenges. Written by German and Iranian scientists, NGO staff and government officials and bridging the gap between research and practical implementation, the book not only enhances our understanding of climate change and desertification, but also raises public awareness and promotes knowledge transfer between disciplines.
Standing up to Climate Change ̶ Creating Prospects for a Sustainable Future in Rural Iran -- Part I. Water and Land Use Challenges in Iran -- Water Resources and Water Security in the MENA Region -- Water Management in Iran: Appearance and Reality -- Contemporary Water Resource Management and Its Role in Tackling Land Degradation and Desertification in Iran -- Part II. Water and Land Use Challenges in the Zayandeh Rud Basin -- Zayandeh Rud River Basin: A Region of Economic and Social Relevance in the Central Plateau of Iran -- Returning Periods of Drought and Climate Change in the Zayandeh Rud River Basin -- Hydrological Modelling of Spatial and Temporal Changes of Blue and Green Water Resources in the Zayandeh Rud River Basin -- Part III. Water and Land Use Challenges in the Roodasht Region -- Realizing the Dynamic of Water Scarcity, Land Use Change and Environmental Degradation in Roodasht, Iran -- Structural Evolution of the Zayandeh Rud River Basin Based on Historical Climate Changes -- Evaluation of Lead and Cadmium Contamination in the Zayandeh Rud River -- Dust Production Crisis Following the Recent Droughts in the Eastern Part of the Zayandeh Rud River Basin -- Part IV. Possible Solutions for the Region -- Participatory Development of Strategies for the Transformation of Agriculture in the Zayandeh Rud River Basin -- Environmental Capacity Building Program for the Residents of the Zayandeh Rud Basin -- Adaptive Land and Water Management: A Regional Action Plan for Roodasht to Cope with Climate Change -- A Short Ecological History of Varzaneh: Adaptive Responses to and Resilience Against the Adversity of Drought -- Determination of Net Water Requirement of Crops and Gardens in Order to Optimize the Management of Water Demand in Agricultural Sector -- Increasing Water and Energy Productivity via Replacing Abiotic Stress Tolerant Forages in East of Zayandeh Rud River Basin.
