Antennas and propagation for 5G and beyond
Transforming the way we live, work, and engage with our environment, 5G and beyond technologies will provide much higher bandwidth and connectivity to billions of devices. This brings enormous opportunities but of course the widespread deployment of these technologies faces challenges, including the need for reliable connectivity, a diverse range of bandwidths, dynamic spectrum sharing, channel modelling and wave propagation for ultra-dense wireless networks, as well as price pressures. The choice of an antenna system will also be a critical component of all node end devices and will present several design challenges such as size, purpose, shape and placement. In this edited book, the authors bring new approaches for exploiting challenging propagation channels and the development of efficient, cost-effective, scalable, and reliable antenna systems and solutions, as well as future perspectives. The book is aimed at a wide audience of industry and academic researchers, scientists and engineers as well as advanced students in the field of antennas, ICTs, signal processing and electromagnetics. It will also be useful to network and system designers, developers and manufacturers. Stakeholders, government regulators, policy makers and standards bodies can use the information provided here to better understand the effects of the technology on the market and future developments for 5G and beyond systems and networks
Introduction to antennas and propagation for 5G and beyond / Qammer H. Abbasi, Syeda F. Jilani, Akram Alomainy and Muhammad A. Imran -- Antennas for 5G : state-of-the-art and open challenges / Sajid M. Asif, Adnan Iftikhar, Muhammad S. Khan, Muhammad Usman, Raed A. Abd-Alhameed and Richard J. Langley -- Metamaterial antennas for 5G and beyond / Muhammad S. Rabbani, James Churm and Alexandros Feresidis -- 3D-printed millimetre-wave antennas with spray-coated metalization / Shaker Alkaraki, James Kelly and Yue Gao -- Multiband millimetre-wave antennas for 5G and beyond / Masood Ur Rehman and Qammer H. Abbasi -- On-chip antenna : challenges and design considerations / Atif Shamim and Haoran Zhang -- Reflectarray antennas : potentials for 5G and beyond / Muhammad I. Abbasi, Muhammad H. Dahri, Mohd H. Jamaluddin, Muhammad R. Kamarudin and Fauziahanim C. Seman -- Performance modelling of wireless Xhaul and associate impact on network provisioning for 5G and beyond / Mona Jaber, Francisco Javier Lopez Martinez and Akram Alomainy -- OTA test methods and candidates for 5G and beyond / Tian Hong Loh -- Beaformer development challenges for 5G and beyond / Muhammad Ali Babar Abbasi and Vincent F. Fusco -- Massive MIMO channels / Trinh Van Chien and Hien Quoc Ngo -- Novel aspects in terahertz wireless communications / Fawad Sheikh, Muath Al-Hasan and Thomas Kaiser -- Conclusion and future perspectives / Qammer H. Abbasi, Syeda F. Jilani, Akram Alomainy and Muhammad A. Imran.
