Revit® 2020 for Architecture : no experience required
Cover -- Title Page -- Copyright -- About the Author -- About the Technical Editors -- Acknowledgments -- Contents -- Introduction -- Who Should Read This Book -- What You Need -- What Is Covered in This Book -- Contacting the Author -- Chapter 1 The Autodesk Revit World -- The Revit Interface -- The Revit Workflow -- Using the Ribbon -- The View Window -- Object Selection -- Modifying and Mirroring -- Building on Existing Geometry -- View Control and Object Display -- The Project Browser -- Windows -- File Types and Families -- System and Hosted Families (.rfa) -- Using Revit Template Files (.rte) -- Using Revit Family Files (.rft) -- Are You Experienced? -- Now you can. . . -- Chapter 2 Creating a Model -- Placing Walls -- Adding Exterior Walls -- Using Reference Planes -- Adding More Walls -- Adding Interior Walls -- Using Temporary Dimensions to Gain Control of Your Model -- Editing Wall Joins -- Displaying Wall Joins -- Disallowing Wall Joins -- Adding Doors and Windows -- Adding Doors -- Placing Openings in Your Walls -- Adding Windows -- Are You Experienced? -- Now you can. . . -- Chapter 3 Creating Views -- Creating Levels -- Adding Levels -- Understanding the Composition of a Level -- Making Other Level Adjustments -- Creating and Modifying Building Sections -- Adding a Building Section -- Making Building Modifications in a Section -- Adding Wall Sections -- Creating Detail Sections -- Using Crop Regions -- Splitting a Section Segment -- Creating Callouts -- Creating and Modifying a Camera View -- Adding a Camera View -- Modifying the Camera -- Creating an Elevation -- Interior Elevations -- Elevation Properties -- Annotation Properties -- Are You Experienced? -- Now you can. . . -- Chapter 4 Working with the Autodesk Revit Tools -- The Basic Edit Commands -- The Move Command -- The Copy Command -- The Rotate Command -- The Array Command.
The Autodesk Revit World -- Creating a Model -- Creating Views -- Working with the Autodesk Revit Tools -- Dimensioning and Annotating -- Floors -- Roofs -- Structural Items -- Ceilings and Interiors -- Stairs, Ramps, and Railings -- Detailing -- Creating Specific Views and Match Lines -- Creating Sheets and Printing -- Creating Rooms and Area Plans -- Advanced Wall Topics -- Schedules and Tags -- Rendering and Presentation
