Handbook of social capital and regional development
The role of social capital in regional development is a multifaceted topic which is studied all over the world using various methods and across numerous disciplines. It has long been evident that social capital is important for regional development, however, it is less clear how this works in practice. Do all types of social capital have the same effects and are different kinds of regions impacted in the same way? This book is the first to offer an overview of this rapidly expanding field of research and to thoroughly analyse the complex issue of social capital and regional development. The authoritative and original chapters, written by leading scholars from around the world, combine theory and new empirical research to analyse various types of regions from metropolitan to rural. A particular focus is on entrepreneurship and the social capital of enterprises, whilst the role of social capital for modern governance and planning is also highlighted. The different components of social capital and data availability are also treated in depth. This Handbook is an ideal resource for students and scholars studying social capital, social networks, and regional growth and development. It also offers great insight for policymaker and planners in the fields of urban, regional and rural development
1. Social capital and regional development: an introduction / Hans Westlund and Johan P. Larsson -- 2. Social capital and networks in spatial economies / Börje Johansson -- Part I aspects of entrepreneurship -- 3. Local social entrepreneurship and social capital / Niels Bosma, Veronique Schutjens and Beate Volker -- 4. Does persistence in start-up activity reflect persistence in social capital? / Michael Fritsch and Michael Wyrwich -- 5. Women's entrepreneurship and social capital / Pia Arenius and Riikka Franzén -- 6. Dealmakers in place: social capital connections in regional entrepreneurial economies / Maryann P. Feldman and Ted Douglas Zoller -- 7. Social capital and the economics of cities / Martin Andersson, Johan P. Larsson and Joakim Wernberg -- 8. Indonesian entrepreneurs in the UK: a social capital perspective on challenges and opportunities of migrant entrepreneurs / Eddy Setiawan, Dessy Irawati and Roel Rutten -- 9. Social capital, entrepreneurship and living standards: differences between migrants and the native born / Matthew Roskruge, Jacques Poot and Laura King -- Part II measurement and regional performance -- 10. The social capital of European regions / Emanuele Ferragina -- 11. Social capital and regional economic performance: a study across U.S. metropolitan statistical areas / Michael F. Thompson and Timothy F. Slaper -- 12. Social capital and income convergence in European regions / Emili Tortosa-Ausina and Jesús Peiró-Palomino -- Part III aspects of regional development -- 13. Challenges and opportunities for local development initiatives to influence social capital for health promotion purposes: theoretical and empirical support / Malin Eriksson and Maria Emmelin -- 14. Social capital and rural development in southern European regions: the case of EU-funded leader projects / Asimina Christoforou and Elena Pisani -- 15. Research on social capital and regional development in China: what has been done so far and what should be done in future? / Ailun Xiong and Yongjian Pu -- Part IV governance, strategies and planning -- 16. Social capital and regional learning governance: a Japanese perspective / Kiyoshi Kobayashi and Tsuyoshi Hatori -- 17. Clusters as a take-off for glocal strategies: the role of social capital / Bengt Johannisson, Marcela Ramirez-Pasillas and Malin Lindberg -- 18. A habermas-inspired approach to social capital in regional planning / Roger E. Bolton -- 19. Researchers' role in regional development - collaboration and social capital in Swedish higher education institutions / Maria Ljunggren.
