Handbook of research on corporate entrepreneurship
Introduction / Shaker A. Zahra, Donald O. Neubaum and James C. Hayton -- Part I corporate entrepreneurship and internal venturing -- 1. Internal corporate venturing: a review of (almost) five decades of literature / Susan A. Hill and Stylianos Georgoulas -- 2. Who is the corporate entrepreneur? insights from opportunity discovery and creation theory / Henri Burgers and Vareska van De Vrande -- 3. A dynamic human capital perspective on corporate opportunity identification / Mathew Hughes, Deniz Ucbasaran and Miranda Lewis -- Part II corporate entrepreneurship and organizational capability -- 4. Towards a relational view of corporate entrepreneurship / Zeki Simsek and Ciaran Heavey -- 5. Institutionalizing corporate entrepreneurship as the firm's innovation function: reflections from a longitudinal research program / Gina Colarelli O'Connor -- 6. Strategic renewal and firm performance: implication of incremental versus radical change after environmental upheavals / Elton L. Scifres, James J. Chrisman and Esra Memili -- Part III corporate venture capital and external venturing -- 7. Corporate venture capital: important themes and future directions / Sandip Basu, Anu Wadhwa and Suresh Kotha -- 8. InnoVen and the Monsanto paradox: strategic exploration with the first external corporate venture capital fund / Mariann Jelinek and Diana Day -- 9. Explorative and exploitative learning from corporate venture capital: a model of program level determinants / Thomas Keil, Shaker A. Zahra and Markku Maula -- 10. What inventions do corporate entrepreneurship programs access? corporate venture capital investment in complementary and substituting ventures / Gary Dushnitsky and Miles Shaver.
Corporate entrepreneurship is about remaking organizations; it affects organizational cultures and systems which, in turn, influence the magnitude, direction and content of corporate entrepreneurship activities. This Handbook hopes to synthesize what we know and clarify what we need to know about key issues such as strategic renewal, innovation and venturing activities within established companies, giving direction to future research. This Handbook combines conceptual and empirical contributions covering a wide gamut of theories and perspectives that include: opportunity discovery vs. creation, the behavioral theory of the firm, learning, human capital, agency, and dynamic capabilities. The chapters uncover who the corporate entrepreneur is, how corporate entrepreneurs vary from their independent counterparts, how corporate entrepreneurship influences organizational performance, and the effect of incremental versus radical strategic renewal undertaken within corporate entrepreneurship on financial performance. They also investigate what an organization learns from corporate entrepreneurship, as well as the types of innovation that companies gain through corporate venturing capital investments. The diversity of authors, perspectives and foci of the chapters highlight the growing depth and breadth of the worldwide research on corporate entrepreneurship and the growing maturity of this research. This book will appeal to scholars and students of entrepreneurship and/or strategic management, as well as managers of established firms
