A research agenda for entrepreneurship and context
Elgar Research Agendas outline the future of research in a given area. Leading scholars are given the space to explore their subject in provocative ways, and map out the potential directions of travel. They are relevant but also visionary. There is growing recognition that entrepreneurship can be better understood within its context(s). This carefully designed book invites readers to take a journey: from reflecting critically on where the discussion on context and entrepreneurship stands today towards identifying future research questions and themes that deserve the attention of entrepreneurship scholars. This collection draws attention to the research challenges the entrepreneurship field faces by reviewing the many facets of contexts and by reflecting on methods and theoretical approaches that are required in order to contextualize entrepreneurship research. Written by renowned international scholars, the book's leading-edge contributions provide a thorough exploration of how to contextualize entrepreneurship research. Taking a multidisciplinary approach, comprehensive coverage of the entrepreneurship/contexts debate is included, in addition to reading lists and a chapter dedicated to advancing future research avenues. Students and academics interested in context and entrepreneurship will benefit from this far-reaching and forward-thinking book
1. The context of contextualizing contexts / Friederike Welter, William B. Gartner and Mike Wright -- 2. Understanding entrepreneurial cognitions through the lenses of context / Malin Brännback and Alan L. Carsrud -- 3. 'After' context / Chris Steyaert -- 4. Let them eat bricolage? Toward a contextualized notion of inequality of entrepreneurial opportunity / Ted Baker and E. Erin Powell -- 5. The temporal dimension of context / Stephen Lippmann and Howard E. Aldrich -- 6. Entrepreneurship in historical context: using history to develop theory and understand process / R. Daniel Wadhwani -- 7. A relational conceptualization of context and the real-time emergence of entrepreneurship processes / Denise Fletcher and Paul Selden -- 8. Theorizing entrepreneurship in context / Erik Stam -- 9. Methodological approaches towards context-sensitive entrepreneurship research / Simone Chlosta -- 10. Advancing understanding of entrepreneurial embeddedness: forms of capital, social contexts and time / Sarah Drakopoulou Dodd, Tobias Pret and Eleanor Shaw -- 11. Historical methods for contextualizing entrepreneurship research / R. Daniel Wadhwani -- 12. Narrating context / William B. Gartner -- 13. Advancing our research agenda for entrepreneurship and contexts / Friederike Welter and William B. Gartner -- 14. A reading list on entrepreneurship and contexts.
