Bioactive peptides : production, bioavailability, health potential, and regulatory issues
Introduction to Bioactive Peptides / M. Selvamuthukumaran, John O. Onuh and Yashwant V. Pathak -- Production and Commercialization of bioactive peptides / M. Selvamuthukumaran and Yashwant V. Pathak -- Extraction, purification, analysis and identification techniques of bioactive / Adeola Alashi -- Stability, bioavailability and bioaccessibility of bioactive peptides / Ifeanyi D. Nwachukwu, Flora-Glad C. Ekezie -- Food sources of bioactive peptides / Abraham Tartenger Girgih, John Oloche Onuh and Rotimi E. Aluko -- Bioactive peptides derived from cereals and their health potential / Maryam Miraghajani, Anastasia-Viktoria Lazaridi, Hossein Hajianfar -- Bioactive peptides from dairy and other fermented food source for disease mitigation / Raghunandan Yendapally and Sushma Ramsinghani -- Bioactive Oxazole-based Cyclopolypeptides from Marine Resources and Their Health Potential / Rajiv Dahiya, Hemendra Gautam, Gunjan Jadon and Sunita Dahiya -- Bioactive peptides from food industrial wastes / Martínez- Medina Gloria A., Carranza-Méndez Rocío, Amaya-Chantaca Daisy P., Anna Ilyna, Gaviria-Acosta Edier, Hoyos-Concha José Luis, Chávez-González Mónica L., GoveaSalas M., Prado-Barragán L. Arely, Aguilar-González Cristóbal N. -- Selection of Specific Strains for Production of Bioactive Peptides / Azam Moosavi and Ali M. Ardekani -- Bioactive peptides as an additive for formulation of novel functional foods and nutraceuticals / M.Selvamuthukumaran and Yashwant V. Pathak -- Application of membrane technology for production of bioactive peptides / Ailton Cesar Lemes, Anna Rafaela Cavalcante Braga, Gabrielle Victoria Gautério, Kátia Flávia Fernandes, Mariana Buranelo Egea -- Sensory Perception of Bioactive Peptides and Debittering Techniques Employed for Taste Improvement / Nana Ama Mireku-Gyimah and Yakubu Jibira -- Bioactivities and Health Promoting Properties of Bioactive Peptides / Nana Ama Mireku-Gyimah -- Opioid peptides : characterization, production and applications / Apurva Srivastav and Yashwant Pathak -- Collagen peptides : for bone, joint and other health applications / Apurva Srivastav and Yashwant Pathak -- Allergic Effects of Bioactive Peptides Produced from Different Food Sources / Sharon O. Azubuike-Osu, Flora-Glad C. Ekezie, Williams E. Ibegbunam, Chibuike C. Udenigwe -- Global health concern and Regulatory issues of using bioactive peptides as a food and drug / M .Selvamuthukumaran and Yashwant V. Pathak -- Current status of bioactive peptides in clinical studies / Param Patel, Maithili Patel, and Yashwant Pathak -- Application of metabolomics in bioactive peptides studies / John O. Onuh, Abraham T. Girgih and Rotimi E. Aluko -- Bioactive Peptides and their application / Rashmi Pathak and Yashwant Pathak
