The Cloud-to-Thing Continuum : Opportunities and Challenges in Cloud, Fog and Edge Computing
The Internet of Things offers massive societal and economic opportunities while at the same time significant challenges, not least the delivery and management of the technical infrastructure underpinning it, the deluge of data generated from it, ensuring privacy and security, and capturing value from it. This Open Access Pivot explores these challenges, presenting the state of the art and future directions for research but also frameworks for making sense of this complex area. This book provides a variety of perspectives on how technology innovations such as fog, edge and dew computing, 5G networks, and distributed intelligence are making us rethink conventional cloud computing to support the Internet of Things. Much of this book focuses on technical aspects of the Internet of Things, however, clear methodologies for mapping the business value of the Internet of Things are still missing. We provide a value mapping framework for the Internet of Things to address this gap. While there is much hype about the Internet of Things, we have yet to reach the tipping point. As such, this book provides a timely entrée for higher education educators, researchers and students, industry and policy makers on the technologies that promise to reshape how society interacts and operates. Theo Lynn is Full Professor of Digital Business at DCU Business School, Ireland and Director of the Irish Institute of Digital Business. John G. Mooney is Associate Professor of Information Systems and Technology Management at the Pepperdine Graziadio Business School, United States. Brian Lee is Director of the Software Research Institute at Athlone Institute of Technology. Patricia Takako Endo is a Postdoctoral Research Fellow at the Irish Institute of Digital Business, Dublin City University, Ireland, and a Professor at Universidade de Pernambuco, Brazil.
Chapter 1 – Defining the Internet of Things -- Chapter 2 – Next Generation Cloud Architecture -- Chapter 3 – Intelligent Networks -- Chapter 4 – Living at the Edge? Optimising availability in IoT -- Chapter 5 – End to End Security and Identity Management Across the Cloud-to-Things Continuum -- Chapter 6 – Trust and Data Privacy in the Internet of Things -- Chapter 7 – Monitoring and Visualizing the Internet of Things -- Chapter 8 – Capturing the Business Value of IOT.
