Diversity, innovation and clusters : spatial perspectives
Contents: 1. Introduction: Diversity, innovation and clusters - spatial perspectives / Irene Bernhard, Urban Gråsjö and Charlie Karlsson -- 2. A high-tech trajectory in a resource-rich economy: modern biotechnology in Norway / Terje Gronning -- 3. Tentative indices for regional economic development - an exploratory study using Swedish municipal data / Tobias Arvemo and Urban Gråsjö -- 4. Inclusive place innovation as a means for local community regeneration / Irene Bernhard, Anna Karin Olsson and Ulrika Lundh Snis -- 5. Patent generation in U.S. Metropolitan areas / Gordon F. Mulligan -- 6. Theorizing transformative innovations: the role of agency in real critical junctures / Lilja Mósesdóttir and Ivar Jonsson -- 7. Exploring industrial PhD students and perceptions of their impact on firm innovation / Karin Berg and Maureen McKelvey -- 8. Globalizing startups business development organizations in the bay area / David Bartlett and Tomasz Mroczkowski -- 9. As an element of the regional innovation cluster, the citizen/non-profit sector that fulfill the "Seedbed Function" of the new industry / Masashi Imase -- 10. The factors in the establishment of Shizuoka Sake brewing cluster. Regional human resources enabling open innovation / Nobuyuki Kishida -- 11. The empirical study on the emergence and diffusion process of design-driven innovation initiated by knowledge creation: from the field study in the industrial cluster of the Sumida Ward, Tokyo / Mutsumi Okuyama, Toshiyuki Yasui, Takashi Maneo and Kyosuke Sakakura -- Index.
"Increased emphasis on the links between regional diversity and regional knowledge, innovation and entrepreneurship highlights the need for a focus on the spatial aspects of these multifaceted, dynamic relationships in order to improve our understanding. By means of a conceptual approach, this timely book illustrates the links between innovation and economic development through the role of space. This thought-provoking book addresses the questions regarding diversity, innovation and clusters that require further investigation and analysis. Chapters written by expert contributors bring together cutting-edge theoretical and empirical studies to consider issues such as how spatial diversity affects collaboration, knowledge and innovation; how innovation arises in various locations; how innovative approaches can be identified for local regeneration; and how the growing visibility and importance of start-up companies in the global economy can be analysed. Diversity, Innovation and Clusters will be a key resource for students and academics researching in the fields of economic geography, regional economics, innovation and entrepreneurship. This book provides insights that will be crucial for providing policy makers, planners and consultants with a more comprehensive decision-making basis as spatial perspectives continue to be a driving force of economic growth and development"--
