Mechanical behavior of materials : fundamentals, analysis and calculations
Part I . Materials: Deformation, Testing, and Strengthening -- Chapter 1. Introduction -- Chapter 2. Physics of Deformation -- Chapter 3. Mechanical Testing and Properties of Materials -- Chapter 4. Strengthening Mechanisms in Metals/Alloys -- Chapter 5. Materials in Engineering -- Part II. Stresses, Strains, and Deformation Behaviors -- Chapter 6. Stress-Strain Relations and Deformation Models -- Chapter 7. Elasticity and Viscoelasticity -- Chapter 8. Complex/Principal Stresses and Strains -- Chapter 9. Plasticity and Superplasticity – Theory and Applications -- Chapter 10. Torsion in Shafts -- Part III. Failure, Design, and Composites Behavior -- Chapter 11. Failures Theories and Design -- Chapter 12. Fracture Mechanics and Design -- Chapter 13. Fatigue Behavior of Materials -- Chapter 14. Creep Behavior of Materials -- Chapter 15. Mechanical Behavior of Composite Materials.
This textbook supports a range of core courses in undergraduate materials and mechanical engineering curricula given at leading universities globally. It presents fundamentals and quantitative analysis of mechanical behavior of materials covering engineering mechanics and materials, deformation behavior, fracture mechanics, and failure design. This book provides a holistic understanding of mechanical behavior of materials, and enables critical thinking through mathematical modeling and problem solving. Each of the 15 chapters first introduces readers to the technologic importance of the topic and provides basic concepts with diagrammatic illustrations; and then its engineering analysis/mathematical modelling along with calculations are presented. Featuring 200 end-of-chapter calculations/worked examples, 120 diagrams, 260 equations on mechanics and materials, the text is ideal for students of mechanical, materials, structural, civil, and aerospace engineering. • Provides a lucid and rigorous treatment of the physics of deformation, fracture mechanics, fatigue, and creep using design approach; • Maximizes reader understanding of complex stress and strain situation applications of plasticity to sheet metal forming industrial practice, elasticity, viscoelasticity, and the mechanical behavior of composites; • Reinforces concepts covered with 200 solved problems/worked examples and 120 diagrams/illustrations; • Features important materials’ properties data, in context, wherever applicable.
