Climate change and the microbiome : sustenance of the ecosphere
This book highlights the impact of climate change on the soil microbiome and its subsequent effects on plant health, soil-plant dynamics, and the ecosphere. It also discusses emerging ideas to counteract these effects, e.g., through agricultural applications of functional microbes, to ensure a sustainable ecosystem. Climate change is altering the soil microbiome distributions and thus the interactions in microbiome and plant‐soil microorganism. Improvement of our understanding of microbe-microbe and plant-microbe interaction under changing climatic conditions is essential, because the overall impact of these interactions under varying adverse environmental conditions is lacking. This book has been designed to understand the impact of climate change, i.e., mainly salt and drought stress, on the soil microbiome and its impact on plant, yield, and the ecosphere. The book is organized into four parts: The first part reviews the impact of climate change on the diversity and richness of the soil microbiome. The second part addresses effects of climate change on plant health. The third part discusses effects on soil-plant dynamics and functionality, e.g., soil productivity. The final part deals with the effects of climate change on ecosystem functioning and also discusses potential solutions. The book will appeal to students and researchers working in the area of soil science, agriculture, molecular biology, plant physiology, and biotechnology. .
Part I. Impact of Climate Change on Soil Microbiome -- Chapter 1. Impact of Climate Change on Functional Root-Derived Signals -- Chapter 2. Climate Change Alters Microbial Communities -- Chapter 3. The Potential Impact of Climate Change on Soil Health, Soil Biota, and Soil Properties: A Review -- Chapter 4. Impact of Climate Change on Soil Fertility -- Chapter 5. Impact of Climate Change on Soil Microbes Involved in Biogeochemical Cycling -- Chapter 6. Climate Change with Its Impacts on Soil and Soil Microbiome Regulating Biogeochemical Nutrient Transformations -- Chapter 7. Climate Change and Its Impact on Soil Properties -- Chapter 8. Climate Change Impacts on Plant–Microbe Interactions -- Chapter 9. Climate Changes in Soil Microorganism–Plant Interactions -- Chapter 10. Microbial Sequestration of Atmospheric Carbon Dioxide -- Chapter 11. Direct and Indirect Impacts of Climatic Change on Soil Communities and Plants -- Chapter 12. How Climate Change Alters Soil Productivity -- Part II. Impact of Climate Change on Plant Health -- Chapter 13. Crop Microbiome Engineering and Relevance in Abiotic Stress Tolerance -- Chapter 14. Impact of Abiotic Stress on Plant Brassinosteroids -- Chapter 15. The Effects of Climate Change on the Alteration of Plant Traits -- Chapter 16. Impact of Climate Change on miRNA: Bioinformatics Perspectives -- Chapter 17. Climate Change on Plant Community Structure and Ecosystem Function -- Chapter 18. Impact of Climate Change on the Importance of Plant Growth-Promoting Microbes in the Rhizosphere -- Chapter 19. Impact of Climate on Soil Microbes and Plant Health -- Chapter 20. Climate Change and Plant Diversity: Threats and Opportunities -- Chapter 21. Impact of Climate Change on Functional AM Fungi in Rhizosphere -- Part III. Impact of Climate Change on Soil-Plant Dynamics and Functionality -- Chapter 22. Phytoremediation of Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons-Contaminated Soils -- Chapter 23. The Impact of Climate Change on Forest Tree Species Dieback and Changes in Their Distribution -- Chapter 24. Climate Change Impacts on Soil Microorganisms that Regulate Nutrient Transformations -- Chapter 25. Deployment of Benign Bacterial Strains to Improve Soil Productivity Under Drought Stress -- Chapter 26. Biogeochemical Cycles in Soil Microbiomes in Response to Climate Change -- Chapter 27. Climate Change and Nutrients Dynamics of Soil -- Chapter 28. Impact of Climate Change on Soil Fertility -- Chapter 29. Use of Bacterial Strains to Improve Soil Productivity Under Salt Stress -- Chapter 30. Impact of Climate Change on Soil Functionality -- Part IV. Impact of Climate Change on Ecosystem Functioning -- Chapter 31. The Impacts of Climate Change on Soil Fertility in Nigeria -- Chapter 32. Rising Greenhouse Gases in the Atmosphere: The Microbes Can Be a Solution—A Review -- Chapter 33. Battling Climate Change: Improving Crop Productivity and Quality by Increasing Photosynthetic Efficiency, Deploying Microbiome Metagenomics, and Effectively Utilizing Digital Technology -- Chapter 34. Socio-Economic Assessment of Climate Change Impact on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services -- Chapter 35. Impact of Climate Change on Localized Plant–Microbe Signalling and Technology Advancement in Microbial Quorum Sensing -- Chapter 36. Molecular and Cellular Mechanisms Underlying the Microbial Survival Strategies: Insights into Temperature and Nitrogen Adaptations. .
