Augmentative and alternative communication : challenges and solutions
Challenges and Solutions in Augmentative and Alternative Communication (AAC) / Billy T. Ogletree -- Earlier Is Better : Challenges to Implementing AAC During Early Intervention / Rose A. Sevcik, MaryAnn Romski, Casy Elyse Walters, and Gal Kaldes -- AAC in Preschool : Navigating Challenges in Language and Literacy Instruction / Andrea Barton-Hulsey, Marika King, and Jennifer Lyons-Golden -- AAC in Schools : Mastering the Art and Science of Inclusion / Nancy B. Robinson and Gloria Soto --  Supporting Participation and Communication in Employment and Volunteer Activities for Adolescents with Complex Communication Needs / David McNaughton and Salena Babb -- AAC Interventions in Persons with Aphasia / Tiffany Chavers, Cissy Cheng, and Rajinder Koul -- Stage-Based Decisions for Access in ALS / Deirdre McLaughlin, Betts Peters, Kendra McInturf, Brandon Eddy, Michelle Kinsella, Aimee Mooney, Trinity Deibert, Kerry Montgomery, and Melanie Fried-Oken -- Access to AAC for Individuals with Acquired Conditions : Challenges and Solutions  in Early Recovery / Susan Koch Fager, Jessica E. Gormley, and Tabatha L. Sorenson -- Challenges in AAC Intervention for People with Profound Intellectual and Multiple Disabilities / Jeff S. Sigafoos, Laura Roche, and Kathleen Tait -- The Challenge of Symbolic Communication for School-Aged Students with the Most Significant Cognitive Disabilities / Karen Erickson, Lori Geist, Penny Hatch, and Nancy Quick -- Implementing the Visual Immersion System in a Classroom for Children with Autism Spectrum Disorder : Challenges and Solutions / Ralf W. Schlosser, Howard C. Shane, Anna A. Allen, Christina Yu, Amanda M. O'Brien, Jackie Cullen, Andrea Benz, Lindsay O'Neil, Laurel Chiesa, and Lisa Miori-Dinneen -- Fostering Communication about Emotions : Aided Augmentative and Alternative Communication Challenges and Solutions / Krista M. Wilkinson, Ji Young Na, Gabriela A. Rangel-Rodriguez, and Dawn J. Sowers -- AAC and Multiculturalism : Incorporating Family Perspectives for Improved Outcomes / Mary Claire Wofford and Rachel Hoge -- Becoming a Solution-Oriented AAC Provider / Billy T. Ogletree and Kelsey Williams.
"Providers of Augmentative and Alternative Communication (AAC) face a myriad of challenges in a rapidly changing and developing field. Augmentative and Alternative Communication: Challenges and Solutions is a unique solution-oriented text intended to prepare professionals to face those challenges with a "can do" perspective. Featuring contributions from prominent AAC researchers and providers, as well as actual AAC users, this resource traverses a wide range of scenarios that clinicians deal with on a daily basis. Augmentative and Alternative Communication: Challenges and Solutions is divided into five sections with each chapter offering a different evidence-based solution. Part I provides an introduction and basis for the rest of the book. Part II focuses on the unique challenges of providing AAC in childhood, while Part III centers on dealing with adult disorders. In Part IV, the authors delve into special populations and issues, such as assisting individuals with multiple disabilities. In Part V, clinicians will find tips for becoming a solution-oriented provider"--
