The glycome : understanding the diversity and complexity of glycobiology
"This volume, The Glycome: Understanding the Diversity and Complexity of Glycobiology, provides a comprehensive understanding of the enigmatic identity of the glycome, a complex but important area of research, one largely ignored because of its complexity. In this volume, the authors thoroughly deal with almost all aspects of the glycome, i.e., elucidation of the glycan identity enigma and its role in regulation of the cellular process and in disease etiology. It bridges the knowledge gap in understanding the glycome, from being a cell signature to its applications in disease etiology. In addition, it details many of the major insights regarding the possible role of the glycome in various diseases as a therapeutic marker. The book systematically covers the major aspects of the glycome, including the significance of substituting the diverse monosaccharide units to glycoproteins, the role of glycans in disease pathologies, and the challenges and advances in glycobiology. The authors stress the significance and huge encoding power of carbohydrates as well as provide helpful insights in framing the bigger picture. The authors begin with an introduction to the trends and developments in glycobiology and then proceed to discussing its role in disease pathologies, followed by its roles in other organisms, including bacteria, plants, and as stress busters. Chapters cover the involvement of the glycome in congenital and noncongenital disorders, the role of glycans in immunological processes, the role of glycans in neurodegeneration and metastasis, the involvement of glycans in host-pathogen interaction, and their role in microbial infection and the immune evasion. The book also provides insights into the therapeutic aspects of acylation as a vital glycosylational modification of proteins. A chapter highlights the scenario of glycans in plants while another discusses glycans as stress coping agents. The Glycome: Understanding the Diversity and Complexity of Glycobiology details state-of-the-art developments and emerging challenges of glycome biology, which are going to be key areas of future research, not only in the glycobiology field but also in pharmaceutics"--
