Community and Identity in Contemporary Technosciences
This open access edited book provides new thinking on scientific identity formation. It thoroughly interrogates the concepts of community and identity, including both historical and contemporaneous analyses of several scientific fields. Chapters examine whether, and how, today’s scientific identities and communities are subject to fundamental changes, reacting to tangible shifts in research funding as well as more intangible transformations in our society’s understanding and expectations of technoscience. In so doing, this book reinvigorates the concept of scientific community. Readers will discover empirical analyses of newly emerging fields such as synthetic biology, systems biology and nanotechnology, and accounts of the evolution of theoretical conceptions of scientific identity and community. With inspiring examples of technoscientific identity work and community constellations, along with thought-provoking hypotheses and discussion, the work has a broad appeal. Those involved in science governance will benefit particularly from this book, and it has much to offer those in scholarly fields including sociology of science, science studies, philosophy of science and history of science, as well as teachers of science and scientists themselves.
Chapter 1. Introduction: Re-considering Community and Identity in Contemporary Technosciences (Susan Molyneux-Hodgson & Karen Kastenhofer) -- Part 1. The Emergence of What? The Case of Synthetic Biology -- Chapter 2. What Synthetic Biology Aims At: Review Articles as Sites for Constructing and Narrating a Field (Clemens Blümel) -- Chapter 3. Rethinking Concepts of Community in the Technosciences: The Case of Synthetic Biology (Alexander Degelsegger-Márquez) -- Chapter 4. Taking the Field of Emergence: Emergence of Technoscientific Fields and the New Political Sociology of Science (Benjamin Raimbault & Pierre-Benoit Joly) -- Chapter 5. Diversity Within. Biographical Talk and (Inter)disciplinary Identities in a Contemporary British University (Cuevas-Garcia, Carlos A.) -- Part 2. The Impact of a New Innovation Regime on Scientific Community -- Chapter 6. Shaping of Technosciences by Funding Regimes from the Scientists’ Perspective: The Case of Systems Medicine (Imme Petersen & Regine Kollek) -- Chapter 7. A Tale of Two Scientific Communities: Self-Organisation and Steering in European Research (Inga Ulnicane-Ozolina) -- Chapter 8. “Big Interdisciplinarity”: Unsettling Excellence (Bettina Bock von Wülfingen) -- Chapter 9. The Project-ed Community: Day-to-Day Excellence Within an Interdisciplinary Project on Microbial Bioenergy (Beatrice Cointe) -- Part 3. Performing Identity Under Technoscientific Conditions -- Chapter 10. Remaining Central and Interdisciplinary. Conditions for Success of a Research Speciality at the University (Marianne Noel) -- Chapter 11. Being a ‘Good Researcher’ in Transdisciplinary Research - Identity Work Beyond Community? (Andrea Schikowitz) -- Chapter 12. Mistaken Identities of Experts and Novices: How Undergraduate Students Contribute to Engineering Laboratory Communities (Caitlin Donahue Wylie) -- Chapter 13. Performing Science in Public: Science Communication and Scientific Identity -- Chapter 14. Discussion: Community and Identity Under Technoscientific Conditions: Empirical Insights.
