Handbook on the economics of climate change
Contents: Introduction -- section I: The political economy of climate change and climate policy -- 1. Distributional issues in climate policy: Air quality co-benefits and carbon rent / James K. Boyce -- 2. Evaluating policies to implement the Paris Agreement: A toolkit with application to China / Ian Parry, Baoping Shang, Nate Vernon, Philippe Windeger and Tarun Narasimhan -- 3. Bargaining to lose: A permeability approach to post-transition resource extraction / Natasha Chichilnisky-Heal -- 4. Host-MNC relations in resource-rich countries / Natasha Chichilnisky-Heal and Geoffrey M. Heal -- 5. Bargaining to lose the global commons / Natasha Chichilnisky-Heal and Graciela Chichilnisky -- section II: Integrated assessment modelling -- 6. Integrated assessment models of climate change / Chris Hope -- 7. Climate change policy under spatial heat transport and polar amplification / William Brock and Anastasios Xepapadeas -- 8. Progressive adaptation strategies in European coastal cities: A response to flood-risk under uncertainty / Luis M. Abadie, Elisa Sainz de Murieta, Ibon Galarraga and Anil Markandya -- 9. Economic growth and the social cost of carbon: Additive versus multiplicative damages / Armon Rezai, Frederick van der Ploeg and Cees Withagen -- 10. Optimal global climate policy and regional carbon prices / Mark Budolfson and Francis Dennig -- 11. Tipping and reference points in climate change games / Alessandro Tavoni and Doruk Iris -- section III: Climate change and sustainability -- 12. Climate change, Malthus and collapse / Norman Schofield -- 13. Greenhouse gas and cyclical growth / Lance Taylor and Duncan Foley -- 14. Growth and sustainability / Robin Hahnel -- 15. Intergenerational altruism: A solution to the climate problem? / Frikk Nesje and Geir Asheim -- 16. On intertemporal equity and efficiency in a model of global warming / John Hartwick and Tapan Mitra -- 17. Transformational change: Parallels for addressing climate and development goals / Penny Mealy and Cameron Hepburn -- 18. Less precision, more truth: Uncertainty in climate economics and macroprudential policy / Cameron Hepburn and J. Doyne Farmer -- Index.
"This timely Handbook recognizes the emergence of climate change as the defining topic of our time. With public climate discourse growing more urgent every year, this Handbook brings together international experts from different economic disciplines to answer critical climate policy questions. Chapters present key ideas and policies to support and accelerate advances in three key areas: the political economy of climate change and climate policy, integrated assessment modelling, and economic and resource sustainability. Contributors discuss the distributional implications of climate change and how policymakers may respond in order to contribute to economic transformation in the midst of a global crisis. With reference to both theoretical and applied economics, this Handbook is critical reading for economists working in the field of climate policy and climate change. It will also appeal to a broader group of environmental scientists and scholars"
