The Edinburgh Companion to Modern Jewish Fiction
WINNER of the Association of Jewish Libraries' Judaica Reference Award Provides critical overviews of the main writers and key themes of Anglophone Jewish fictionThis collection of essays represents a new departure for, and a potentially (re)defining moment in, literary Jewish Studies. It is the first volume to bring together 28 chapters covering a wide range of American, British, South African, Canadian and Australian Jewish fiction.The volume is divided into 3 parts - American Jewish Fiction; British Jewish Fiction; and International and Transnational Anglophone Jewish Fiction - but many of the essays cross over these boundaries and speak to each other implicitly, as well as, on occasion, explicitly. Extending and redefining the canon of modern Jewish fiction, the volume juxtaposes major authors with more marginal figures, revising and recuperating individual reputations, rediscovering forgotten and discovering new work, and in the process remapping the whole terrain. This volume opens windows onto vistas that previously had been obscured and opens doors for the next generation of studies that could not proceed without a wide-ranging, visionary empiricism grounding their work. Key FeaturesHighlights the rich diversity of the field and identifies its key themes, including immigration, the Diaspora, the Holocaust, Judaism, assimilation, antisemitism and ZionismAnalyses the main trends in Anglophone Jewish fiction and situates them in historical contextDiscusses the place of Anglophone Jewish fiction in relation to critical debates concerning transatlanticism and transnationalism; ethnicity and identity politics; postcolonial studies, feminist studies and Jewish StudiesWith a preface by Mark Shechner, the volume's contributors include Vicki Aarons (Trinity University, Texas), Debra Shostak (Wooster College, Ohio), Ira Nadel (University of British Columbia), Efraim Sicher (Ben-Gurion University), Phyllis Lassner (Northwestern University), Sue Vice (University of Sheffield), Lori Harrison-Kahan (Boston College), Ruth Gilbert (University of Winchester), Beate Neumeier (University of Cologne) and Sandra Singer (University of Guelph)
Frontmatter -- Contents -- List of Illustrations -- Acknowledgements -- Preface: Jews Have Legs -- Introduction: Modern Jewish Fiction -- Part I. American Jewish Fiction -- 1. Pioneering Women Writers and the De-ghettoisation of Early American Jewish Fiction -- 2. Sensibilities of Estrangement: Delmore Schwartz, Isaac Rosenfeld and Saul Bellow -- 3. The Making of American Jewish Identities in Postwar American Fiction -- 4. 'Are you kidding me?' Black Humour in the Work of Joseph Heller, Stanley Elkin, Wallace Markfield and Bruce Jay Friedman -- 5. American Jewish Life Writing, Illness and the Ethics of Innovation -- 6. From Feminist to Housewife and Back Again: Orthodoxy and Modernity in American Jewish Women's Writing -- 7. Soviet Jews, Re-Imagined: Anglophone Émigré Jewish Writers from the USSR -- 8. History on a Personal Note: Postwar American Jewish Short Stories -- 9. Disappointed Believers? The Jewish Question Mark in Eisner's 'A Contract with God' -- 10. The Holocaust in American Jewish Fiction -- 11 Representing the Holocaust in Third-Generation American Jewish Writers -- 12. Marginal Writers; or, Jews Who Aren't -- Part II: British Jewish Fiction -- 13. The Postwar 'New Wave' of British Jewish Writing -- 14. Jewish Émigré and Refugee Writers in Britain -- 15. Jewish Exile in Englishness: Eva Tucker and Natasha Solomons -- 16. Jewish, Half-Jewish, Jew-ish: Negotiating Identities in Contemporary British Jewish Literature -- 17. Life Writing and the East End -- 18. 'Almost too good to be true': Israel in British Jewish Fiction, Pre-Lebanon -- 19. The Writing on the Wall: Israel in British Jewish Fiction, Post-Lebanon -- 20. British Jewish Holocaust Fiction -- 21. Reading Matters: 'Marginal' British Jewish Writers -- Part III: International and Transnational Anglophone Jewish Fiction -- 22. Jewish Writing in Canada -- 23. South African Jewish Writers -- 24. Repairing Cracked Heirlooms: South African Jewish Literary Memory of Lithuania and Latvia -- 25. Australian Jewish Fiction: A Bibliographical Survey -- 26. 'Migrant' Jewish Writers in the Anglophone Diaspora -- 27. Jewish Novels of the Spanish Civil War -- 28. Mooristan and Palimpstine: Jews, Moors and Christians in Amitav Ghosh and Salman Rushdie -- List of Contributors -- Works Cited -- Index
