Advances in the sociology of trust and cooperation : theory, experiments, and field studies
Frontmatter -- Contents -- 1. Complementary Studies on Trust and Cooperation in Social Settings: An Introduction -- 2. Institutional Design and Human Motivation: The Role of Homo Economicus Assumptions -- 3. Rational Choice Theory, the Model of Frame Selection and Other Dual-Process Theories. A Critical Comparison -- 4. Too Simple Models in Sociology: The Case of Exchange -- 5. Rational Exploitation of the Core by the Periphery? On the Collective (In)efficiency of Endogenous Enforcement of Universal Conditional Cooperation in a Core-Periphery Network -- 6. Reputation Effects, Embeddedness, and Granovetter’s Error -- 7. Robustness of Reputation Cascades -- 8. Organized Distrust: If it is there and that Effective, Why Three Recent Scandals? -- 9. Polarization and Radicalization in the Bounded Confidence Model: A Computer-Aided Speculation -- 10. Local Brokerage Positions and Access to Unique Information -- 11. Who Gets How Much in Which Relation? A Flexible Theory of Profit Splits in Networks and its Application to Complex Structures -- 12. Social Identity and Social Value Orientations -- 13. Does Money Change Everything? Priming Experiments in Situations of Strategic Interaction -- 14. Social Norms and Commitments in Cooperatives – Experimental Evidence -- 15. Rational Choice or Framing? Two Approaches to Explain the Patterns in the Fehr-Gächter-Experiments on Cooperation and Punishment in the Contribution to Public Goods -- 16. Maverick: Experimentally Testing a Conjecture of the Antitrust Authorities -- 17. Cooperation, Reputation Effects, and Network Dynamics: Experimental Evidence -- 18. Comparing Consequences of Carrots and Sticks on Cooperation in Repeated Public Good Games -- 19. A Sociological View on Hierarchical Failure: The Effect of Organizational Rules on Exchange Performance in Buyer- Supplier Transactions -- 20. Organizational Innovativeness Through Inter-Organizational Ties -- 21. A Transaction Cost Approach to Informal Care -- 22. Trust is Good – Or is Control Better? Trust and Informal Control in Dutch Neighborhoods – Their Association and Consequences -- 23. Religious Diversity and Social Cohesion in German Classrooms: A Micro-Macro Study Based on Empirical Simulations -- Notes on the Editors and Contributors
The problem of cooperation and social order is one of the core issues in the social sciences. The key question is how humans, groups, institutions, and countries can avoid or overcome the collective good dilemmas that could lead to a Hobbesian "war of all against all". Using the general set of social dilemmas as a paradigmatic example, rigorous formal analysis can stimulate scientific progress in several ways. The book, consisting of original articles, provides state of the art examples of research along these lines: theoretical, experimental, and field studies on trust and cooperation. The theoretical work covers articles on trust and control, reputation formation, and paradigmatic articles on the benefits and caveats of abstracting reality into models. The experimental articles treat lab based tests of models of trust and reputation, and the effects of the social and institutional embeddedness on behavior in cooperative interactions and possibly emerging inequalities. The field studies test these models in applied settings such as cooperation between organizations, informal care, and different kinds of collaboration networks. The book will be exemplary for rigorous sociology and social sciences more in general in a variety of ways: There is a focus on effects of social conditions, in particular different forms of social and institutional embeddedness, on social outcomes. Theorizing about and testing of effects of social contexts on individual and group outcomes is one of the main aims of sociological research. Modelling efforts include formal explications of micro-macro links that are typically easily overlooked when argumentation is intuitive and impressionistic Extensive attention is paid to unintended effects of intentional behavior, another feature that is a direct consequence of formal theoretical modelling and in-depth data-analyses of the social processes. By combining different empirical methods on the same questions, essentially the book sets forth a mixed-method design across chapters, allowing for a more convincing body of evidence per underlying question Some theoretical contributions re-evaluate what has been learned from the experimental and field results about the strengths and weaknesses of the earlier theoretical propositions, and extend the theory in light of these findings
