Emerging treatment technologies for waste management
This book is focused on the current status of industrial pollution, its source, characteristics, and management through various advanced treatment technologies. The book covers the recycle, reuse and recovery of waste for the production of value-added products. The book explores industrial wastewater pollution and its treatment through various advanced technologies and also the source and characteristics of solid waste and its management for environmental safety. It discusses new methods and technologies to combat the waste-related pollution and focuses on the use of recycled products. This book is of value to upcoming students, researchers, scientists, industry persons and professionals in the field of environmental science and engineering, microbiology, biotechnology, toxicology, further it is useful for global and local authorities and policy makers responsible for the management of liquid and solid wastes.
Chapter 1. Recent advances in physicochemical and biological approaches for degradation and detoxification of industrial wastewater -- Chapter 2. Bioremediation of Hexavalent Chromium from industrial effluents -- Chapter 3. Integration of nanotechnologies for sustainable remediation of environmental pollutants -- Chapter 4. Arsenic removal using nanotechnology -- 5. Emerging Contaminants in wastewater: Sources of contamination, toxicity, and removal approaches -- Chapter 6. Application of biochar for sustainable development in agriculture and environmental remediation -- Chapter 7. Life cycle analysis to estimate environmental impact of the food industry -- Chapter 8. Food Wastes: Perceptions, Impacts and Management -- Chapter 9. Hydrothermal Carbonization of Organic Fraction of Municipal Solid Waste: Advantage, Disadvantage and Different Application of Hydrochar -- Chapter 10. Pollutants characterization and toxicity assessment of pulp and paper industry sludge for safe environmental disposal -- Chapter 11. Use of flue gas as a carbon source for algal cultivation.
