Handbook on diversity and inclusion indices : a research compendium
"This Handbook on Diversity and Inclusion Indices critically examines many of the popular and frequently cited indices related to diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) benchmarking and progress tracking. The goal is to provide a better understanding of the indices' construction, strengths and weaknesses, intended applications, contribution to research and progress towards diversity and equity goals. The editors include detailed reviews of 23 DEI indices including broader, more general measures as well as those that focus on a particular aspect of diversity (e.g., gender, religion). Included are indices that measure diversity, equity, and/or inclusion at organizational, national, and regional levels. The Handbook unpacks this wide range of indices to meet the needs of researchers, public policy makers, and general consumers of information"--
Contents: Preface / 1 Introduction to the Handbook - a review of 23 diversity and inclusion indices / Eddy S. Ng, Christina L. Stamper, Alain Klarsfeld and Yu (Jade) Han -- 2. Counting for something: Valuing the human development Index / Erica French and Jannine Williams -- 3. The society for human resource management's diversity and inclusion global best practices instrument and global diversity readiness Index / Christina L. Stamper and Gwendolyn Combs -- 4. Tafep's fair and progressive employment Index (fpei) / Angeline Lim Cuifang and Kelvin Pang Tze Lin -- 5. Richard florida's creative class: The global tolerance Index and its value for d&i research / Angela Kornau and Savita Kumra -- 6. The United Nations' gender inequality Index / Isis Gutiérrez-Martínez, Samina M. Saifuddin and Rana Haq -- 7. Numbers and needed nuances: A critical analysis of the gender equity Index (gei) / Iain Macpherson, Mami Taniguchi and Fabian Jintae Froese -- 8. Gender equality Index / Anne Laure Humbert and Agnès Hubert -- 9. Women's economic opportunity (weo) Index / Nasima M.H. Carrim, Caren Brenda Scheepers and Elham Metwally -- 10. Global gender gap Index: World economic forum perspective / Radha R. Sharma, Sonam Chawla and Charlotte M. Karam -- 11. Mckinsey gender parity report / Gudrun Sander and Nora J. Keller -- 12. Counting women at the top: A review of research on the "2020 women on boards" gender diversity Index / Emma Kerr, Joe Hoang and Phanikiran Radhakrishnan -- 13. Equilar gender diversity Index (egdi) / Heather Griffiths, Yasmin Marshall and Anne Laure Humbert -- 14. Promoting lgbt inclusion and scholarship: Using the human rights campaign's corporate equality Index / David M. Kaplan and Robyn A. Berkley -- 15. The lgbt diversity Index / Simone Pulcher and Thomas Köllen -- 16. A global examination of lgbt workplace equality indices / Philip Crehan, Felicity Daly, Luke Fletcher and Shaun Pichler -- 17. Mipex: From a European Index, to an international database / Alain Klarsfeld, Laura E.M. Traavik and Hans van Dijk -- 18. Indicators of citizenship rights for immigrants (icri) by wzb Berlin / Lee Martin and Dimitria Groutsis -- 19. The multicultural policy Index (mpi) / Andrew Lam and Eddy S. Ng -- 20. An analysis of religious diversity Index (rdi) by pew research center / Alain Klarsfeld, Jawad Syed and Areeba Mumtaz -- Index.
