A research agenda for management and organization studies
Elgar Research Agendas outline the future of research in a given area. Leading scholars are given the space to explore their subject in provocative ways, and map out the potential directions of travel. They are relevant but also visionary. Managing and organizing are now central phenomena in contemporary societies. It is essential that they are studied from a variety of perspectives, and with equal attention paid to their past, their present and their future. This book collects opinions of trailblazing scholars concerning the most important research topics, essential for study in the next 15-20 years. The opinions concern both traditional functions, such as accounting and marketing, personnel management and strategy, technology and communication, but also new challenges, such as diversity, equality, waste and cultural encounters. The collection is intended to be inspirational for young scholars and an invitation to a dialogue with practitioners. The book's contributions are written by well-established scholars. Each is a leader in their field and will remain important figures for the next 20 years and beyond. Each chapter starts with a short summary of the present situation but focuses on the future of the discipline. The contributors cover practically all subfields of what is called business administration, or management and organization studies, containing topics that are new, such as invisible organizations or encounters between art, popular culture and organizing. Outlining the future and the state of the art, this comprehensive and innovative book is an essential resource for students and academics seeking to be at the forefront of future research in management and organization studies
Introduction -- 1. History of management - what is the future for research on the past? / Marie Laure Djelic -- 2. In search of what accounting is not: speculations on the future of valuing, transparency and a new aesth-etics for governing capitalism and democracy / Paolo Quattrone -- 3. From marketing to "market-things" and "market-iting": accounting for technicized and digitalized consumption / Franck Cochoy, Jan Smolinski and Jean-Sébastien Vayre -- 4. Stepping on the toes of giants, or how to review the future of strategy research / Martin Kornberger -- 5. Humanistic management / Monika Kostera -- 6. Well trodden paths and roads less traveled: research directions for gender in management and organization / Yvonne Benschop -- 7. Making humans and nonhumans talk in diversity research / Andreas Diedrich -- 8. Organizational communication: a wish list for the next fifteen years / François Cooren -- 9. Digital work: a research agenda / Wanda J. Orlikowski and Susan V. Scott -- 10. Global and comparative studies of organization and management: moving from "sameness or difference" to "glocalization and orientation" / Gili S. Drori -- 11. Waste management: the other of production, distribution, and consumption / Hervé Corvellec -- 12. Art, aesthetics and organization / Timon Beyes -- 13. Popular culture and management / Carl Rhodes -- 14. Invisible organizations - a research agenda / Christopher Grey and Jana Costas -- 15. Towards an alternative business school: a school of organizing / Martin Parker.
