Why ethical behaviour is good for the economy : towards growth, wellbeing and freedom
This timely book offers a nuanced critique of the nudge narrative, and demonstrates why and how ethical behaviour can have significant positive economic and wellbeing outcomes.
"This timely book offers a nuanced critique of the nudge narrative, and demonstrates why and how ethical behaviour can have significant positive economic and wellbeing outcomes. Morris Altman models a complex alternative to the expectations of ethical behaviour and shows how this behaviour can be consistent with competitive market economies, contrary to what conventional economic theory suggests. Providing an alternative theoretical framework to analyse the relationship between ethical behaviour, decision-making environments and capabilities, individual preferences and the economy, Altman examines how being ethical can be an engine for economic growth and development. The book offers a better understanding of how ethical behaviour is good not only for the economy, but also for improving the wellbeing of our society at large whilst respecting and enhancing the rights and freedoms of individuals. This book is an important read for all those not content with the conventional economic narrative. It is also a provocative and thoughtful book for policy-makers and economists looking to better understand the growing importance of ethical behaviour for the economy"--
Contents: 1. Introduction: rethinking ethics, economic theory, and public policy -- 2. The evolution of ethics and the market economy -- 3. Understanding why ethical production and ethical investment can flourish in a global economy -- 4. Ethical choices in the economic world -- 5. Free will in economics: is there freedom of choice? -- 6. The ethics of capabilities -- 7. How much are you willing to pay to be ethical? An experiment -- 8. Why being green can make you happy and be good for the economy -- 9. The road to freedom? Ethical implications of economic theory for public policy: insights from behaviour economics -- Index.
