Structural characterization and seismic retrofitting of Adobe constructions : Experimental and Numerical Developments
This book provides the reader with a review of the most relevant research on the structural characterization and seismic retrofitting of adobe construction. It offers a complete review of the latest research developments, and hence the relevance of the field. The book starts with an introductory discussion on adobe construction and its use throughout the world over time, highlighting characteristics and performance of adobe masonry structures as well as different contributions for cultural heritage conservation (Chapter 1). Then, the seismic behaviour of adobe masonry buildings is addressed, including examples of real performance during recent earthquakes (Chapter 2). In the following chapters, key research investigations on seismic response assessment and retrofitting of adobe constructions are reviewed. The review deals with the following issues: mechanical characterization of adobe bricks and adobe masonry (Chapters 3 and 4); quasi-static and shaking table testing of adobe masonry walls and structures (Chapters 5 and 6); non-destructive and minor-destructive testing for characterization of adobe constructions (Chapter 7); seismic strengthening techniques for adobe constructions (Chapter 8); and numerical modelling of adobe structures (Chapter 9). The book ends with Chapter 10, where some general conclusions are drawn and research needs are identified. Each chapter is co-authored by a group of experts from different countries to comprehensively address all issues of adobe constructions from a worldwide perspective. The information covered in this book is fundamental to support civil engineers and architects in the rehabilitation and strengthening of existing adobe constructions and also in the design of new adobe buildings. This information is also of interest to researchers, by providing a summary of existing research and suggesting possible directions for future research efforts.
Adobe constructions in the world: What should we know?- Behavior of adobe construction in recent earthquakes.-Mechanical characterization of adobe bricks -- Mechanical characterization of adobe masonry -- Quasi-static testing of adobe masonry walls and structures -- Shaking table testing of adobe masonry walls and structures -- Non-destructive testing tools to support the characterization of adobe constructions -- Seismic strengthening techniques for adobe construction -- Numerical modelling of adobe structures -- Standards and codes for adobe construction -- Conclusions and future research needs.
