Handbook of research on food processing and preservation technologies / edited by Megh R. Goyal, Preeti Birwal, Monika Sharma ; Volume 5: Emerging techniques for food processing, quality, and safety assurance
"The Handbook of Research on Food Processing and Preservation Technologies covers a vast abundance of information on various design, development, and applications of novel and innovative strategies for food processing and preservation. The roles and applications of minimal processing techniques (such as ozone treatment, vacuum drying, osmotic dehydration, dense phase carbon dioxide treatment, pulsed electric field, and high-pressure assisted freezing) are discussed, along with a wide range of applications. The handbook also explores some exciting computer-aided techniques emerging in the food processing sector, such as robotics, radio frequency identification (RFID), three-dimensional food printing, artificial intelligence, etc. Some emphasis has also been given on nondestructive quality evaluation techniques (such as image processing, terahertz spectroscopy imaging technique, near infrared, Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy technique, etc.) for food quality and safety evaluation. The significant roles of food properties in the design of specific foods and edible films have been elucidated as well. Volume 5: Emerging Techniques for Food Processing, Quality, and Safety Assurance discusses various emerging techniques for food preservation, formulation, and nondestructive quality evaluation techniques. Each chapter covers major aspects pertaining to principles, design, and applications of various food processing methods, such as low temperature-based-ultrasonic drying of foods, hypobaric processing of foods, viability of high-pressure technology, application of pulsed electric fields in food preservation, green nanotechnology for food processing and preservation, advanced methods of encapsulation, basics and methods of food authentication, imaging techniques for quality inspection of spices and nuts, FTIR coupled with chemometrics for food quality and safety, and the use of robotic engineering for quality and safety"--
Low Temperature Based Ultrasonic Drying of Foods / Pavan M. Gundu, Preeti Birwal, Chaitradeepa G. Mestri, and Abila Krishna -- Hypobaric Processing of Food / Sharanabasava Kumbar and Menon Rekha Ravindra -- Viability of High-Pressure Technology in the Food Industry / Mohona Munshi, Madhusudan Sharma, and Saptashish Deb -- Potential of Pulsed Electric Fields in Food Preservation / Pranali Nikam, Suvartan Ranvir, John David, Thejus Jacob, and Raman Seth -- Pulsed Light Technology in Food Processing and Preservation / Mahendra Gunjal, Humeera Tazeen, Pavan M. Gundu, Preeti Birwal, and Abila Krishna -- Potential of Green Nanotechnology in Food Processing and Preservation / Shikha Pandhi, Arvind Kumar, Sadhna Mishra, and Dinesh Chandra Rai -- Food Encapsulation: Principles, Novel Methods, and Applications / Nikunj Sharma, Syed Mansha Rafiq, and Syed Insha Rafiq -- Food Authentication: Basics and Detection Methods / Sangita Bansal, Kanika Sharma, and Era V. Malhotra -- Imaging Techniques for Quality Assessment of Spices and Nuts / Leena Kumari, Monika Sharma, and Gajanan Deshmukh -- Fourier Transform Infrared (FTIR) Spectroscopy with Chemometrics: Evaluation of Food Quality and Safety / Neelam Upadhyay, C. G. Harshitha, Nilesh Kumar Pathak, and Rajan Sharma -- Robotic Engineering: A Tool for Quality and Safety of Foods / Ravi Prakash and Menon Rekha Ravindra.
