The Bloomsbury handbook to Katherine Mansfield
"Through her formally innovative and psychologically insightful short stories, Katherine Mansfield is increasingly recognised as one of the central figures in early 20th-century modernism. Bringing together leading and emerging scholars and covering her complete body of work, this is the most comprehensive volume to Mansfield scholarship available today. The Bloomsbury Handbook to Katherine Mansfield covers the full range of contemporary scholarly themes and approaches to the author's work, including: · New biographical insights, including into the early New Zealand years · Responses to the historical crises: the Great War, empire and orientalism · Mansfield's fiction, poetry, criticism and private writing · Mansfield and modernist culture - from Bloomsbury to the little magazines · Mansfield and her contemporaries - Woolf, Lawrence and von Arnim · Mansfield and the arts - visual culture, cinema and music The book also includes a substantial annotated bibliography of key works of Mansfield scholarship from the last 30 years"--
Introduction: Expanding the horizon of Katherine Mansfield studies / Todd Martin -- Katherine Mansfield at work. Katherine Mansfield and modernism / Enda Duffy -- Juliet and Maata / Gerri Kimber -- Katherine Mansfield, the magazine writer / Jenny McDonnell -- From The aloe to "Prelude" / Alex Moffett -- The New Zealand stories / Jane Stafford -- Katherine Mansfield and her contemporaries. Katherine Mansfield, Garsington, and Bloomsbury / Jay Dickson -- Katherine Mansfield and Virginia Woolf / Ruchi Mundeja -- Katherine Mansfield and D. H. Lawrence / Andrew Harrison -- Katherine Mansfield and Elizabeth von Arnim / Isobel Maddison -- Katherine Mansfield and genre. Katherine Mansfield and the short story / Ailsa Cox -- Katherine Mansfield as critic / Chris Mourant -- Katherine Mansfield's letters and journals / Anna Jackson -- Katherine Mansfield's poetry / Erika Baldt -- Katherine Mansfield and the arts. Katherine Mansfield's musical world / Claire Davison -- Katherine Mansfield and post-impressionism / Angela Smith -- Katherine Mansfield and the cinematic / Faye Harland -- The world of Katherine Mansfield. Katherine Mansfield and New Zealand / Kathleen Jones -- Katherine Mansfield and empire / Janet Wilson -- Katherine Mansfield and the Great War / Christine Darrohn -- Katherine Mansfield and the East / Tracy Miao -- Katherine Mansfield and the Russian mystics / Galya Diment -- Katherine Mansfield and France / Gerri Kimber -- Critical approaches to Katherine Mansfield. Katherine Mansfield and reading / Rishona Zimring -- Katherine Mansfield and sexuality / Claire Drewery -- Katherine Mansfield and eco-criticism / William Kupinse -- Annotated bibliography of selected criticism / Aimée Gasston.
