Numerical and Experimental Investigation of Hollow Sphere Structures in Sandwich Panels
This work addresses the performance of novel metallic hollow-sphere structures (MHSS) in sandwich panels. Numerical finite-element analyses and experimental tests are described. The first part of the book focuses on the various types of metallic hollow-sphere structure. The influence of morphology, topology, joining technology and material composition upon their mechanical properties is investigated numerically. Uniaxial compressive tests, with adhesively-bonded MHSS, are performed in order to confirm the numerical findings. In addition, the effective thermal conductivities of MHSS are determined. The main focus of the second part of this work is the experimental three-point bend testing of sandwich panels. The sandwich panels are assembled using aluminium facing-sheets which enclose various cellular core materials such as M-Pore® and Alporas® aluminium foams, honeycomb structures and adhesively-bonded MHSS. The flexural stiffness, load-carrying capacity and failure modes are determined by using three-point bending tests. A comparison of the experimental findings permits the evaluation of the performance of various cellular metal cores.An invaluable source of data on this specialised topic. Fiedler (engineering, U. of Avreiro, Portugal) focuses on different types of metallic hollow sphere structures (MHSSs), considering their morphology, topology, joining technology, material composition and mechanical properties. He begins by describing cellular metals, the potential for cellular lightweight structures, and sandwich structures, then proceeds to theoretical foundations in mechanics and heat transfer. He then concentrates on then methodologies, including the finite element method, his experimental methods and test procedures. Using various structures and the aforesaid finite element method, he evaluates several factors, analyzing impact behavior and thermal properties. His findings are interesting and well-supported by illustrations and references. However, he does not include an index. Nevertheless, the result serves as a professional reference and can also be used as a supplemental classroom text.
