Analysis of nanoplastics and microplastics in food
Microplastics and nanoplastics : Origin, fate, effects / Vividha Dhapte-Pawar, Piyush Mehta and Prathmesh Kenjale -- Plastic Waste in the Aquatic Environment : Impacts and Management / Isangedighi Asuquo Isangedighi, Gift Samuel David, Ofonmbuk Ime Obot -- Microplastics and Nanoplastics in Environment / M Humam Zaim Faruqi, Faisal Zia Siddiqui -- Marine Pollution : The Problematic of Microplastics / Santos ADO, Nascimento MTL, de Oliveira e Sá M, Bila DM, Baptista Neto JA, Pereira R, Vieira MN -- Impacts of macro -- and microplastic on macrozoobenthos abundance in intertidal zone / A P Bangun, H Wahyuningsih, A Muhtadi -- Microplastics and nanoplastics in food / Mohammed Asadullah Jahangira, Sadaf Jamal Gilanib, Abdul Muheemc, Syed Sarim Imam -- Sampling, Isolating and Digesting of Microplastics / Leo M.L. Nollet -- Sampling, isolating and identifying microplastics ingested by fish and invertebrates / A.L. Lusher, N. A. Welden, P. Sobral, M. Cole -- Persistent Organic Pollutants (POPs) : A Real Threat to Environment / M Humam Zaim Faruqi, Faisal Zia Siddiqui -- Marine litter plastics and microplastics and their toxic chemicals components : the need for urgent preventive measures / Frederic Gallo, Cristina Fossi, Roland Weber, David Santillo, Joao Sousa, Imogen Ingram, Angel Nadal, Dolores Romano -- Microplastics in Freshwater / Mohammad Rashid, Shariq Shamsi and Khwaja Salahuddin Siddiqi -- Microplastics in Freshwater Systems : A Review on Its Accumulation and Effects on Fishes / Asif Raza.
"The world's ever-increasing use of plastics has created large areas of floating plastic waste in the oceans. Nanoplastics and microplastics have made their way into food, particularly in the marine environment. They have been found in in crustaceans and bivalve mollusks like oysters and mussels, where the digestive tract is eaten. They have also been reported in honey, beer, and table salt. This book discusses the fate of microplastics and nanoplastics in the environment and discusses sampling and analysis methods detecting and identifying them"--
