The Cambridge companion to Shakespeare and race
Did the concept of race exit for Shakespeare and his contemporaries? : an introduction / Ayanna Thompson -- The materials of race : staging the black and white binary in the early modern theatre / Farah Karim-Cooper -- Barbarian moors : documenting racial formation in early modern England / Ambereen Dadabhoy -- Racist humor and Shakespearean comedy / Patricia Akhimie -- Race in Shakespeare's histories / Andrew Hadfield -- Race in Shakespeare's tragedies / Carol Mejia LaPerle -- Experimental Othello / Matthew Dimmock -- Flesh and blood : race and religion in The merchant of Venice / Dennis Austin Britton -- Was sexuality racialized for Shakespeare? : Antony and Cleopatra / Melissa E. Sanchez -- The tempest and early modern concpetions of race / Virginia Mason Vaughan and Alden T. Vaughan -- Shakespeare, race, and globalization : Titus Andronicus / Noémie Ndiaye -- How to think like Ira Aldridge / Scott Newstok -- What is the history of actors of color performing in Shakespeare in the UK? / Urvashi Chakravarty -- Actresses of color and Shakespearean performance : the question of reception / Joyce Green MacDonald -- Othello : a performance perspective / Adrian Lester -- Are Shakespeare's plays racially progressive? The answer is in our hands / Miles Grier -- How have post-colonial approaches enriched Shakespeare's works / Sandra Young -- Is it possible to read Shakespeare through critical White studies? / Arthur L. Little, Jr.
"The Cambridge Companion to Shakespeare and Race shows teachers and students how and why Shakespeare and race are inseparable. Moving well beyond Othello, the collection invites the reader to understand racialized discourses, rhetoric, and performances in all of Shakespeare's plays, including the comedies and histories. Race is presented through an intersectional approach with chapters that focus on the concepts of sexuality, lineage, nationality, and globalization. The collection helps students to grapple with the unique role performance plays in constructions of race by Shakespeare (and in Shakespearean performances), considering both historical and contemporary actors and directors. The Cambridge Companion to Shakespeare and Race will be the first book that truly frames Shakespeare studies and early modern race studies for a nonspecialist, student audience"--
