Handbook of qualitative research methods on human resource management : innovative techniques
1. Qualitative research in HRM: innovation over stagnation / Keith Townsend, Rebecca Loudoun and David Lewin -- Section I designing qualitative projects -- 2. The role of qualitative methods in mixed methods designs / Roslyn Cameron -- 3. Anchoring qualitative methods for longitudinal studies / Rebecca Loudoun and Keith Townsend -- 4. Autoethnography: a novel way to study HRM / Sally Sambrook -- Section II innovations in data sources -- 5. Using legal research methods in human resource management research / Richard Johnstone -- 6. The use of news media as a data source in HRM research: exploring society's perceptions / Sheryl Ramsay, Sara Branch and Jacqueline Ewart -- 7. Netnographical methods and the challenge of researching hidden and secretive employee social media practices / James Richards -- 8. Doing historical research in human resource management: with some reflections on an academic career / Peter Ackers -- 9. Thinking about philosophical methods in human resources / Kerrie L. Unsworth and Matthew T. Hardin -- Section III innovations in data collection methods -- 10. An experiment with 'the miracle question': an innovative data collection technique in HR research / Keith Townsend -- 11. Using photo-elicitation to understand experiences of work-life balance / Catherine Cassell, Fatima Malik and Laura Radcliffe -- 12. Using qualitative repertory grid interviews to gather shared perspectives in a sequential mixed methods research design / Céline Rojon, Mark N.K. Saunders and Almuth Mcdowall -- 13. Free verbal associations - measuring what people think about employee participation / Werner Nienhueser -- 14. Using qualitative diaries to uncover the complexities of daily experiences / Laura S. Radcliffe -- 15. Autoethnographic vignettes in HRM / Mark Learmonth and Michael Humphreys -- Section IV innovative data analysis -- 16. Computer supported qualitative research / Julie Cogin and Ju Li Ng -- 17. Cross-cultural HRM research: the potential of causal cognitive mapping / Gail Clarkson -- 18. Deriving behavioural role descriptions from the perspectives of job- holders: an illustrative example / Richard Winter.
Human resource management as a field of research is a broad church, with a wide variety of research methods in use. This Handbook focuses on qualitative research methods and explores the opportunities and challenges of new technologies for innovating data collection and data analysis. The editors have brought together 18 chapters, written by some of the world's leading researchers in their field. They begin with the importance of good project design and then move on to reflect on innovations and developments in data sources, such as netnographical methods, legal research methods, the use of news media, and historical research. They go on to outline innovations in data collection methods with particular pertinence to key HRM topics. Finally, the contributors explore innovative data analysis, looking at the importance of computer-supported qualitative research, causal cognitive mapping and deriving behavioural role descriptions from the perspectives of job-holders. This Handbook is an invaluable tool for students, researchers and academics in the field of human resource management
