Research handbook on employee turnover
Covering the period of the financial crisis, this Research Handbook discusses the degree of importance of different driving forces on employee turnover. The discussions contribute to policy agendas on productivity, firm performance and economic growth. The contributors provide a selection of theoretical and empirical research papers that deal with aspects of employee turnover, as well as its effects on workers and firms within the current socio-economic environment. It draws on theories and evidence from economics, management, social sciences and other related disciplines. With its interdisciplinary approach, this book will appeal to a variety of students and academics in related fields. It will also be of interest to policy makers, HR experts, firm managers and other stakeholders
1. Introduction / Cary Cooper and George Saridakis -- 2. Employee turnover / Harald Dale-Olsen -- 3. Understanding and measuring employee turnover / Kevin Morrell -- 4. Two decades of employee retention, tenure and turnover / Peter Urwin and Emma Parry -- 5. Analysing, monitoring and costing labour turnover / Stephen Bevan -- 6. Employee turnover as a cost factor of organisations / Anne-Marie Mohammed, Yanqing Lai, Maria Daskalaki and George Saridakis -- 7. Inter- and intra-firm mobility of workers / Tor Eriksson -- 8. Perception of training and turnover intention / Choi Sang Long and Mikkay Wong El Leen -- 9. Compensation policy and employee turnover / Stephen Taylor -- 10. Turnover amongst Generation Y / Linda Holbeche -- 11. A role perspective on turnover intentions: examining behavioral predictors / Jui-Tang Kao and Wan-Jing April Chang -- 12. A diagnostic methodology for discovering the reasons for employee turnover using shocks and events / Justin Purl, Kathleen Hall and Rodger W. Griffeth -- 13. Quit turnover and the business cycle: a survey / Carlos Carrillo-Tudela and Melvyn Coles -- 14. Employment, turnover and career progress / Priscila Ferreira -- 15. Employee turnover and the expansion and contraction of employers / Mario Bossler and Richard Upward -- 16. High performance human resource practices and voluntary employee turnover / Inmaculada Beltrán Martín.
