Principles and standards for benefit-cost analysis
1. An assessment of important issues concerning the application of benefit-cost analysis to social policy / Aidan R. Vining and David L. Weimer -- 2. Toward standardization of benefit-cost analysis of early childhood interventions / Lynn A. Karoly -- 3. Principles and standards for benefit-cost analysis of public health preparedness and pandemic mitigation programs / Joseph H. Cook -- 4. Principles and standards for the benefit-cost analysis of crime / John R. Lott, Jr. -- 5. Towards principles and standards for the benefit-cost analysis of safety / Scott Farrow and W. Kip Viscusi -- 6. Developing general equilibrium benefit analyses for social programs : an introduction and example / H. Allen Klaiber and V. Kerry Smith -- 7. Appropriate discounting for benefit-cost analysis / David F. Burgess and Richard O. Zerbe, Jr. -- 8. Ethical benefit-cost analysis as art and science : ten rules for benefit-cost analysis / Richard O. Zerbe, Jr. -- 9. Incorporating distributional issues into benefit-cost analysis : why, how, and two empirical examples using non-market valuation / John B. Loomis -- 10. Behavioral economics and the conduct of benefit-cost analysis : towards principles and standards / Lisa A. Robinson and James K. Hammitt -- 11. Conclusion : principles and standards for benefit-cost analysis / Richard O. Zerbe, Jr., Tyler Blake Davis, Nancy Garland and Tyler Scott.
This book is a superb textbook treatment of benefitcost analysis. It is well designed for students in public policy, public administration, public health, social work, environmental affairs, law and business.  John D. Graham, Indiana University, US  Principles and Standards for Benefit-Cost Analysis is well worth reading. The volume reproduces some chapters previously published online in the Journal of Benefit-Cost Analysis alongside new material that has not yet appeared in print, and does so in a logical and appealing way. Even the several chapters with which I disagreed made me think hard about my own views. And thinking hard is a good thing!  Paul R. Portney, University of Arizona, US  Benefit-cost analysis informs which policies or programs most benefit society when implemented by governments and institutions around the world. This volume brings together leading researchers and practitioners to recommend strategies and standards to improve the consistency and credibility of such analyses, assisting analysts of all types in achieving a greater uniformity of practice.  Although new analytical approaches are constantly being used and tested, this book supports the emergence of a professional culture adhering to a set of principles and standards that can be used to identify useful analytical processes and to discard less useful ones. Contributors to this volume come from a wide variety of backgrounds and include authors of leading textbooks, editors of journals, former government officials, and practitioners whose analyses have shaped decisions about education, the environment, security, income distribution, and other vital social and economic policies.  Students and professors of public sector economics will find much of interest in this groundbreaking book. Practitioners working in government, non-profit organizations, and international institutions, including welfare economists, policy analysts, environmentalists, engineers, and others will also benefit from this volumes sophisticated and practical recommendations
