The Many Facets of Complexity Science : In Memory of Professor Valentin Afraimovich
Chapter 1. Maurice Courbage: The Directional Entropy for Spatially Extended Dynamical Systems -- Chapter 2. Olivier Bui, Xavier Leoncini, Detecting Regularity with Complexity Functions -- Chapter 3. Raul Rechtman, Local Complexity Functions of the Ehrenfest’s wind-tree model -- Chapter 4. Bastien Fernandez, Selective Chaos of Travelling Waves in Feedforward Chains of Bistable Maps -- Chapter 5. Yeyin Xu, Albert C.J. Luo, On Periodic Motions in a van der Pol Oscillator Chapter 6. Jianzhe Huang, Fuhong Min , Hidden periodic motions for brushless motor with unsteady torque excitation -- Chapter 7. Stefano Boccaletti, H. Bi, T. Qui, I. Bonamassa, Shuguang Guan, Chunking Rhythmic Synchronization: Bellerophon States and Quantized Clusters of Globally Coupled Phase Oscillators -- Chapter 8. Shasha Zheng, Xilin Fu, Chatter Dynamics and Stability of the Impulsive van der Pol Equation -- Chapter 9. Xilin Fu, Yanyan Zhang, Complex Motions in an Inclined Impact Pair With a Periodic Excitation -- Chapter 10. Dmitry V. Kovalevsky, Igor L. Bashmachnikov: Nonlinear Dynamics of Deep Open-Ocean Convection: An Analytical Approach -- Chapter 11. Messoud Efendiev, Vitali Vougalter: On the Necessary Conditions for Preserving the Nonnegative Cone: Mixed Diffusion -- Chapter 12. Dimitri Volchenkov，Veniamin Smirnov: Multi-scale Analysis of Urban Spatial Structures acquired from OpenStreetMap.
This book explores recent developments in theoretical research and data analysis of real-world complex systems, organized in three parts, namely Entropy, information, and complexity functions Multistability, oscillations, and rhythmic synchronization Diffusions, rotation, and convection in fluids The collection of works devoted to the memory of Professor Valentin Afraimovich provides a deep insight into the recent developments in complexity science by introducing new concepts, methods, and applications in nonlinear dynamical systems covering physical problems and mathematical modelling relevant to economics, genetics, engineering vibrations, as well as classic problems in physics, fluid and climate dynamics, and urban dynamics. The book facilitates a better understanding of the mechanisms and phenomena in nonlinear dynamics and develops the corresponding mathematical theory to apply nonlinear design to practical engineering. It can be read by mathematicians, physicists, complex systems scientists, IT specialists, civil engineers, data scientists, and urban planners.
