Innovative approaches in diagnosis and management of crop diseases / R.K. Singh (PhD), Gopala (PhD) ; volume 3: Nanomolecules and biocontrol agents
Application of Nanotechnology in Management of Various Plant Diseases / Shalini Tailor and Avinash Marwal -- Nanotechnology: A New Beginning to Mitigate the Effect of Plant-Parasitic Nematodes / Faryad Khan, Taruba Ansari, Mohammad Shariq, and Mansoor Ahmad Siddiqui -- Nanomaterials Against Plant Pathogens: An Innovative Approach / P. Kavitha, K. Rathinabala, P. Anbinsoniya, K. Sathiyadash, K. Rajendran, and V. Karthikeyan -- Green Nanotechnology in Agriculture: Plant Disease Diagnosis to Management / J. U. Vinay, K. S. Iliger, and Chikkannaswamy -- Biosensor: A Bioelectronic Device for Myco-Toxins in the Food Processing Industry / Shrvan Kumar, Dawa Dolma Bhutia, Saroj Belbase, and Jiwan Paudel -- Rice Blast Disease and Its Integrated Management / S. K. Mandal, A. R. Kumari, R. K. Mandal, Barun, and K. B. Chhetri -- Management of Soil-Borne Disease in Rice: An Eco-Friendly Approach / P. Ahiladevi, K. Rajappan, and P. Sathya -- Diseases of Rice and Rational Approaches for Their Management / S. K. Tripathi, Radha Singh, and A. K. Jain -- Biological Management of Horticultural Crop Diseases Using Phyllosphere-, Rhizosphere-, and Endosphere-Derived Biocontrol Agents / Nidhi Kumari, Sneha Chaudhary, Shiwali Dhiman, P. K. Shukla, and Gundappa -- Guava Wilt and Its Management / S. K. Mandal, A. R. Kumari, Barun, R. K. Mandal, and K. B. Chhetri -- Streptomyces: A Versatile Biocontrol Agent Against Plant Diseases Perspectives and Its Mode of Action / E. Rajeaswari, P. Latha, C. Sudhaleshmi, Dileepa, L. Indhumeena, R. Muthukumar, and S. Keerthana -- Plant Immunization: An Innovative Approach for Plant Disease Management / R. Gopi and Bindu Madhavi Gopireddy -- Use of Host Resistance for Management of Wheat Rusts / A. N. Mishra, K. N. Tiwari, T. L. Prakasha, and S. V. Sai Prasad -- Recent Approaches in Diagnosis of Seed-Borne Fungal Pathogens of Major Crops / Anju B. Sharma -- Sclerotinia sclerotiorum (Lib.) de Bary: A Potential Phytopathogenic -- Fungi to Crop Plants and Its Management / Devesh Pathak and Vaibhavpratap Singh -- Recent Advances in Plant Disease Management Under Climate Change Scenario / Ram Niwas, Gireesh Chand, and Shivam Maurya.
"This book is the third of the 3-volume Innovative Approaches in Diagnosis and Management of Crop Diseases, which provides an abundance of new research and information on major diseases of various crops along with new techniques and technology for the detection of plant pathogens along with appropriate management strategies. Divided into three volumes and with chapters written by renowned and expert scientists working in different areas of plant pathology, the volumes cover important diseases of crops, incited by bacteria, fungi, viruses, viroids, phytoplasma, and nematodes. This multi-volume set addresses these disease challenges to commercial field and horticultural crops and their management. Volume 3: Nanomolecules and Biocontrol Agents explores the use of new ways to prevent and mitigate plant diseases. These include novel green nanotechnologies; biosensors; biological management using phyllosphere-, rhizosphere-, and endosphere-derived biocontrol agents; employing biofumigation techniques; and plant immunization approaches. The book also considers the special challenge of plant disease management under the present climate change scenario. Key features: Presents diverse research of leading plant pathologists on detection, diagnosis, and management of crop diseases Shares innovative and emerging techniques for diagnosis and management of major plant diseases Covers a vast array of important crops and their diseases"--
