Handbook on the economics of the internet
The Internet is connecting an increasing number of individuals, organizations, and devices into global networks of information flows. It is accelerating the dynamics of innovation in the digital economy, affecting the nature and intensity of competition, and enabling private companies, governments, and the non-profit sector to develop new business models. In this new ecosystem many of the theoretical assumptions and historical observations upon which economics rests are altered and need critical reassessment. This Handbook brings together twenty-seven original chapters that discuss theoretical and applied frameworks for the study of the economics of the Internet, encompassing: its unique economics as a global information and communications infrastructure; the effects of the Internet on economic transactions, including social production, advertising, innovation, and intellectual property rights; the economics and management of Internet-based industries, such as search, news, entertainment, culture, and virtual worlds; the effects of the Internet on the economy at large Interdisciplinary in its approach, the Handbook synthesizes the state of knowledge and offers new perspectives for researchers, practitioners, and students
Preface -- Introduction: The economics of the internet: an overview / Johannes M. Bauer and Michael Latzer -- Part II Theoretical foundations -- 1. The industrial organization of the internet / Günter Knieps and Johannes M. Bauer -- 2. The internet as a complex layered system / Stephen J. Schultze and Richard S. Whitt -- 3. A network science approach to the internet / Volker Schneider and Johannes M. Bauer -- 4. Peer production and cooperation / Yochai Benkler -- 5. The internet and productivity / Carol Corrado and Bart Van Ark -- 6. Cultural economics and the internet / Christian Handke, Paul Stepan and Ruth Towse -- 7. A political economy approach to the internet / Patricia Mazepa and Vincent Mosco -- Part II Institutional arrangements and internet architecture -- 8. Competition and antitrust in internet markets / Justus Haucap and Torben Stühmeier -- 9. The economics of internet standards / Stanley M. Besen and George Sadowsky -- 10. The economics of copyright and the internet / Sacha Wunsch-Vincent -- 11. The economics of privacy, data protection and surveillance / Ian Brown -- 12. Economics of cybersecurity / Michel Van Eeten, Hadi Asghari and Johannes M. Bauer -- 13. Internet architecture and innovation in applications / Barbara Van Schewick -- 14. Organizational innovations, ICTs and knowledge governance: the case of platforms / Cristiano Antonelli and Pier Paolo Patrucco -- 15. Interconnection in the internet: peering, interoperability and content delivery / David D. Clark, William H. Lehr and Steven Bauer -- Part III Economics and management of applications and services -- 16. Internet business strategies / Johann J. Kranz and Arnold Picot -- 17. The economics of internet search / Hal R. Varian -- 18. The economics of algorithmic selection on the internet / Michael Latzer, Katharina Hollnbuchner, Natascha Just and Florian Saurwein -- 19. Online advertising economics / Wenjuan Ma and Steven S. Wildman -- 20. Online news / Lucy Küng, Nic Newman and Robert Picard -- 21. The economics of online video entertainment / Ryland Sherman and David Waterman -- 22. Business strategies and revenue models for converged video services / Yu-Li Liu -- 23. The economics of virtual worlds / Isaac Knowles and Edward Castronova -- 24. Economics of big data / Claudio Feijóo, José-Luis Gómez-Barroso and Shivom Aggarwal -- Part IV Trajectories -- 25. The evolution of the internet: a socioeconomic account / D. Linda Garcia -- 26. From the internet of science to the internet of entertainment / Eli M. Noam.
