Creating resilient futures : integrating disaster risk reduction, sustainable development goals and climate change adaptation agendas
1 Introduction: Can the Sendai Framework, The Paris Agreement, and Agenda 2030 provide a path towards resilience? -- Section 1 Best practice approaches -- 2 Why making connections through resilience indicators matters? -- 3 Coherence, alignment and integration: Understanding the legal relationship between sustainable development, climate change adaptation and disaster risk reduction -- 4 Bridging gaps: connecting climate change risk assessments with disaster risk reduction and climate change adaptation agendas -- Section 2 Irish case studies -- 5 Enhancing Integration of Disaster Risk and Climate Change Adaptation into Irish Emergency Planning -- 6 Supporting national climate change action in Ireland through local governance networks -- 7 Mainstreaming climate change adaptation into planning and development: A case study example from Northern Ireland -- Section 3 International case studies -- 8 Sustainability, disaster risk reduction and climate change adaptation: Building from the bottom up – A South African perspective from the small-scale fisheries sector -- 9 Adapting to climate change through disaster risk reduction in the Caribbean: lessons from the Global South in tackling the Sustainable Development Goals -- 10 Towards a resilient riverine community: A Case Study in Sadong Jaya, Sarawak, Malaysia -- 11 Reimagining our menu for sustainable development.
This excellent text recognises that efforts towards improving development outcomes must work in concert with strategies which promote planetary health and support the transition to a sustainable and climate-resilient future. — Rt Hon Helen Clark, Patron, The Helen Clark Foundation, Auckland, New Zealand. The threat multiplier of climate change is carefully used to examine best practice in a series of excellent case studies exploring the three related responses of disaster risk reduction, sustainable development and climate change adaptation. —Emeritus Professor John Sweeney, Irish Climate Analysis and Research UnitS (ICARUS), Maynooth University, Ireland This book provides concrete examples, through case studies from Ireland and around the world, to help illustrate what it means to think and act simultaneously on development, disasters and climate. — Dr. Lisa Schipper, Environmental Social Science Research Fellow, Environmental Change Institute, University of Oxford, United Kingdom. This edited volume critically examines the coherence building opportunity between Climate Change Adaptation, the Sustainable Development Goals and Disaster Risk Reduction agendas. The authors consider opportunities to address the global challenge of developing resilience, as an integrated development continuum instead of through independent and siloed agendas. Stephen Flood is an environmental social science researcher working on various aspects of climate change adaptation, sustainability and resilience. He is based at the Irish Climate Analysis and Research Units (ICARUS), Maynooth University. Yairen Jerez Columbié investigates cultural exchange, postcolonial ecologies and the sociohistorical and cultural dimensions of environmental challenges. She is an Assistant Professor in Latin American Studies and Intercultural Communication at Trinity College Dublin. Martin Le Tissier is the lead PI for the Identifying Interactions for SDG Implementation in Ireland and Achieving Resilience in the Marine and Coastal Environment of Ireland EPA funded projects based at MaREI. Barry O’Dwyer is lead researcher in the area of impacts and adaptation at MaREI and is leading the development and delivery of Climate Ireland, Ireland’s national resource of climate change and adaptation information.
