Learning to read across languages and writing systems
Around the world, children embark on learning to read in their home language or writing system. But does their specific language, and how it is written, make a difference to how they learn? How is learning to read English similar to or different from learning in other languages? Is reading alphabetic writing a different challenge from reading syllabic or logographic writing? Learning to Read across Languages and Writing Systems examines these questions across seventeen languages representing the world's different major writing systems. Each chapter highlights the key features of a specific language, exploring research on learning to read, spell, and comprehend it, and on implications for education. The editors' introduction describes the global spread of reading and provides a theoretical framework, including operating principles for learning to read. The editors' final chapter draws conclusions about cross-linguistic universal trends, and the challenges posed by specific languages and writing systems.
"The Chinese script is one of the oldest in the world. In fact, among the few scripts in use before 1000 BC, Chinese is the only one still used (Taylor & Taylor, 1995). The earliest Chinese characters were pictograms, however over time Chinese evolved into a logographic script (DeFrancis, 1984). Today, there is considerable diversity both in the Chinese script itself, and in reading instruction across the different Chinese-speaking societies. The Chinese government simplified 2,238 commonly used characters in 1964 . Simplified characters are now used in Mainland China and Singapore, whereas traditional characters have been kept in Hong Kong and Taiwan. Although most Chinese children receive reading instruction only in simplified or traditional characters, it seems relatively easy for an educated person to read the other form. However, simplification is highly controversial, because characters not only represent a writing system but also embody a 5000-year old culture and tradition. Pinyin is used as an auxiliary alphabet in Mainland China to denote character pronunciation. Pinyin consists of the 26 letters of the Roman alphabet plus u and is completely transparent in letter-sound correspondences. Zhuyinfuhao (phonetic symbols), a phonetic system made up of ancient characters and character components, is used in Taiwan. No transliteration systems are used in Hong Kong. 1.3. Literacy and schooling"--
"Around the world, children embark on learning to read in their home language or writing system. But does their specific language, and how it is written, make a difference to how they learn? How is learning to read English similar to or different from learning in other languages? Is reading alphabetic writing a different challenge from reading syllabic or logographic writing? Learning to Read across Languages and Writing Systems examines these questions across seventeen languages representing the world's different major writing systems. Each chapter highlights the key features of a specific language, exploring research on learning to read, spell, and comprehend it, and on implications for education. The editors' introduction describes the global spread of reading and provides a theoretical framework, including operating principles for learning to read. The editors' final chapter draws conclusions about cross-linguistic universal trends, and the challenges posed by specific languages and writing systems"--
This unique book examines how children learn to read across seventeen languages and their orthographies.
