A research agenda for experimental economics
Contents: 1 Introduction to a research agenda for experimental economics / Ananish Chaudhuri -- Part I -- 2. An informational framework for studying social norms / James Tremewan and Alexander Vostroknutov -- 3. Experiments in law and economics / Alice Guerra -- 4. Complying with environmental regulations: Experimental evidence / Timothy N. Cason, Lana Friesen and Lata Gangadharan -- 5. Behavioural characteristics, stability of preferences and entrepreneurial success / Pushkar Maitra and Ananta Neelim -- 6. Experimental evidence on behavioural nudges in health / John Gibson -- Part II -- 7. The gender leadership gap: Insights from experiments / Catherine Eckel, Lata Gangadharan, Philip J. Grossman, and Nina Xue -- 8. Experiments in political psychology / Kyle Fischer, Quentin D. Atkinson, and Ananish Chaudhuri -- 9. Neuroeconomics / Sarah Cowie, Ian Kirk, and Olav Krigolson -- 10. Sleep and decision-making / David L. Dickinson -- Index.
"Elgar Research Agendas outline the future of research in a given area. Leading scholars are given the space to explore their subject in provocative ways, and map out the potential directions of travel. They are relevant but also visionary. Written by well-established researchers in behavioural economics, this Research Agenda illustrates the application of incentivised decision-making experiments, highlighting how this can add a new and novel dimension to social science research. Informative and timely, it explores how experiments are being used by pioneers in a diverse range of fields when research questions may not be amenable to field studies, vignettes or surveys. Offering fruitful cross-disciplinary discussions, the chapters look at incentivised decision-making experiments in the study of: social norms, law and economics, environmental regulations, entrepreneurship, healthy behaviour, gender and leadership, political ideology, and neuroeconomics. Chapters provide an opportunity for experienced experimental economists to develop more innovative applications of their tools and scope for less experienced scholars to learn how to incorporate experiments in their research questions. Researchers in economics, political science, sociology, as well as business and management will find this to be a beneficial read. Policy makers looking to understand how experimental tools and behavioural nudges are used to improve policy will also appreciate the key theoretical and practical applications of the topics offered in this Research Agenda"--
