Competition law and economics : developments, policies and enforcement trends in the US and Korea
Contents: Preface by Jeong Pyo Choi -- 1. Introduction and overview / Jay Pil Choi, Wonhyuk Lim and Sang-Hyop Lee -- Part I: Setting the stage -- 2. Competition law and economics: International cooperation and convergence in competition policy / Jay Pil Choi -- Part II: Market structure -- 3. Market structure and market studies / William E. Kovacic -- 4. An empirical study of the competitive pressure of the foreign sector in Korea / Suil Lee -- Part III: Abuse of dominance -- 5. Structured rule of reason analysis of tying arrangements / Yong Hyeon Yang -- Part IV: Merger and collusion -- 6. Comments on merger guidelines / Joseph Farrell -- 7. What next? Cartel strategy after getting caught / Robert C. Marshall, Leslie M. Marx and Claudio Mezzetti -- Part V: Vertical restraints -- 8. Competition policy and the economics of vertical restraints / Ralph A. Winter -- 9. Resale price maintenance in a multi-producer and multi-distributor setting / Se Hoon Bang and Yangsoo Jin -- 10. Retail price coordination in Korean department stores: The specific purchase contract / Woohyun Chang -- Index.
"Offering a comprehensive overview of the major issues that arise in the enforcement of competition laws, this book takes an interdisciplinary approach to the topic, reviewing the development of Korean competition laws and their enforcement with rigorous economic analysis. Chapters build on the Korean experience, providing guidance to the capacity-building efforts of developing countries that have recently introduced competition laws. In this exciting new book, an international team of experts compares market structures, in both global and Korean contexts, particularly focusing on the impact of foreign competition on market concentration and ways to improve market structure. It thoroughly investigates core competition problems, including international abuses of dominance, mergers and collusion, and vertical restraints. Contributions move beyond explaining the laws and practices of enforcement agencies, offering readers an insight into the trend of ever-increasing interdependence among national economies, complemented by analyses of recent developments in the US and Canada. The exploration of clear trends both in Korea and globally will prove valuable to scholars and students of industrial competition policy, and law and economics. It will also be useful to policy-makers, particularly those in developing countries, looking to better understand the issues surrounding competition law and designing future policies"--
