Genus rheum (Polygonaceae) : a global perspective
"Genus Rheum (Polygonaceae): A global perspective provides an integrative overview of a genus of high valued medicinal herbs. It majorly emphasizes various aspects of research on Rheum from its origin to conservation. The book evaluates the concepts, definitions, models and findings involved in understanding its botany, ecology, chemistry, ethnobotany, pharmacology and molecular biology besides the employment of in vitro propagation strategies vis-à-vis threat status as a conservation measure. It includes earlier approaches and the recent state-of-art biotechnological interventions to understand and modulate the pathways involved in biosynthesis of specialized metabolites of therapeutic significance making it an essential guide and reference to a broader interdisciplinary readership. It also explores pharmacological importance of Rheum vis-à-vis traditional utility and highlights different areas that need further research and exploration. Moreover, the book describes how this species has reached to the brink of extinction and evaluates the role of different conservation strategies that had been employed from time to time. It also describes how in vitro propagation can serve as a means of its multiplication besides for the generation of desired bio-active chemical constituents within short span of time. Features: An integrated approach to elucidate the complex taxonomic history of genus Rheum across the globe. An emblem for traditional utility of Rhubarb across cultures for spectrum of simple to complex human ailments. A rich source of findings and insights on phytochemicals reported till date with their potential use as therapeutic agents. Elucidates different genetic, cytological and biotechnological interventions employed to understand its adaptability, acclimatization, and stability under tremendous natural and anthropogenic pressure. Integration of information available, presented in a single lucid script easily accessible to students, researchers and interested citizens across the globe"--
