Security analytics : a data centric approach to information security
"The book gives useful insight on various machine learning techniques for cyber security analytics. Nowadays around 98% objects and devices are connected with the outside world through sensors and actuators. They are increasingly networked with one another and on the internet.This book gives a comprehensive overview of security issues in cyber physical systems by examining and analyzing the vulnerabilities. It also brings current understanding of common web vulnerabilities and its analysis while maintaining awareness and knowledge of contemporary standards, practices, procedures and methods of Open Web Application Security Project. This book is a medium to funnel creative energy and develop new skills of hacking and analysis of security. It also aids to plunge into a career in cybersecurity to even the unlearned. This book also expedites the learning of the basics of investigating crimes, including intrusion from the outside and damaging practices from the inside, how criminals apply across devices, networks, and the internet at large and analysis of security data. It also expounds on how to analyse in order to recover information after a cybercrime"
A reliable blockchain application for music in a decentralized network / Bhavna Saini, Gaurav Aggarwal, Anju Yadav, Kabeer Nautiyal -- An authentic data centric application for medical store / S.L.Jayalakshmi, R.Girija, R.Vedhapriyavadhana -- Intelligent data analytic approach for restaurant recommendation / Nirmal Kirola, Sandesh Tripathi, Nitin Chhimwal, Sudhir Sharma -- Investigation on mobile forensics tools to decode cyber crime / Keshav Kaushik -- Investigation of feeding strategies in microstrip patch antenna for various applications / R. Nagarajan, S. Kannadhasan -- Optical encryption of images using partial pivoting lower upper decomposition based on two structured deterministic phase masks in the hybrid transform domain / Priyanka Maan -- A comparative analysis of blockchain integrated IOT applications / Seema Verma -- Blockchain : a next power-driven technology for smart cities / Shyamal Srivastava, R.Girija -- Mutual surf scaling factor features analysis for detecting DDOS attacks based on lattice behavioral using spread spectral soft-max-recurrent neural network / R. Renuga Devi, N. Umamaheshwari -- Provably secure role delegation scheme for medical cyber physical system / Rachana Y. Patil, Aparna Bannore -- FRAME routing protocol to handle security attacks in wireless sensor networks / S. Radha, B. Sachin, Seyedali Pourmoafi, P. Nagabushanam -- A blockchain security management based rehashing shift code rail encryption using circular shift round random padding key for decentralized cloud environment / R. Renuga Devi, K. Ganga Devi -- Application of exact barrier-penalty function for developing privacy mechanism in cyber physical system / Manas Kumar Yogi, A.S.N.Chakravarthy.
