Handbook of entrepreneurship and marketing
Contents: Part I: Introduction and setting the scene -- 1. Introduction to the edward elgar research handbook of entrepreneurial marketing (em) / Ian Fillis and Nicholas Telford -- 2. Dante leave Homer without it: On epics, umbras and authorpreneurs / Stephen Brown and Anthony Patterson. -- Part II: Sme strategy and networking -- 3. Sme marketing networking / Audrey Gilmore -- 4. Entrepreneurial marketing and networks - the interactional dynamics of entrepreneur and network management / Briga Hynes and Maria Kelly -- 5. Entrepreneurial marketing strategy, orientations and networks / Rosalind Jones and Mari Suoranta -- 6. Strategy in small firms / Darryl Cummins -- Part III: Contemporary developments in entrepreneurial marketing practice -- 7. The use of crowdfunding by environmental entrepreneurs: Is it all about cash? / Suzanne Mawson and Christopher Ball -- 8. The wicked problem of social media and entrepreneurial marketing / Brian Jones -- 9. Capturing the spirit of social entrepreneurship: From a mother to another / Elaine Ritch and Anne M.J. Smith -- 10. Far from a madding crowd: Crowdfunding possibilities and pitfalls / Elaine Ramsey, Emer Gallagher, Andrew Kincaid and Sharon Loane -- 11. Operating at the margins of illegal entrepreneurial markets: Situating 'rogue shopkeepers' at the SME and criminal interface / Robert Smith and Liz Frondigoun -- 12. Rapidly internationalising small firms: Are human resources the missing part of the puzzle? Towards an understanding of the implications for international entrepreneurship (IE) research and practice / Sharon Loane and Trevor Morrow -- Part IV: Innovative approaches to understanding entrepreneurial marketing / 13. The Use of a Narrative Methodology in Small Firm Research / Jonathan H. Deacon and Elizabeth Lloyd-Parkes -- 14. Aesthetic leadership in the small firm / Ian Fillis and Jonathan E. Schroeder -- 15. Serendipity, effectuation, entrepreneurial marketing and fast growth entrepreneurial firms / Saeed Mirvahedi and Sussie C. Morrish -- 16. Entrepreneurial marketing and the 4s model: Strategy, serendipity, storytelling, software / Kaye Nightingale and Zubin Sethna -- 17. Mindful entrepreneurial marketing for small and medium enterprises / Ahmet Bayraktar, Emine Erdogan, Can Uslay and Olivia F. Lee -- 18. 'I just hate selling myself': The challenges of selling for the owner manager (OM) and soloist / Peter J. Fraser and Iain S. Fraser -- 19. Entrepreneurship, marketing and the multicultural: The case of a European Union erasmus+ project / Nicholas Telford and Veronika Gustafsson -- Part V: Entrepreneurial marketing and the arts and cultural industries -- 20. Entrepreneurship and marketing in the film industry / Finola Kerrigan, Ngan (Emily) Luong and Roger Shannon. -- 21. Institutionalizing entrepreneurs - the case of Brazil's forum for cultural rights / Victoria L. Rodner and Pieter Tjabbes -- 22. Dark magi: Tales of improvisation, transposition and intellectual cross-pollinations / Noel Dennis and Michael Macauley -- 23. The role of effectuation and entrepreneurial marketing in the creation of a new art venture / Kim Lehman, Ian Fillis and Morgan P. Miles -- 24. Blockbusters and entrepreneurial marketing: Critics' perspectives on meaning making / Ruth Rentschler -- 25. International entrepreneurial marketing in the publishing industry / Rachel Noorda -- 26. Entrepreneurial marketing in the context of strategic management/marketing of arts organizations / Theresa A. Kirchner, John B. Ford and Sandra Mottner -- 27. Lucky breaks: Unpicking the intersectionalities at play in artistic careers / Chloe Preece and Nicholas Telford -- Part VI: Concluding thoughts -- 28. Handbook of entrepreneurship and marketing: Concluding discussion and future directions / Nicholas Telford and Ian Fillis.
"This timely and incisive Handbook provides critical contemporary insights into the theory and practice of entrepreneurship and marketing in the twenty-first century. Bringing together rich and varied contributions from prominent international researchers, it offers a reflective synthesis of scholarship at the interface between marketing and entrepreneurship. Emphasising the need for contextual analysis of marketing and entrepreneurial practices, this Handbook explores the effectiveness of a variety of behaviours, supporting its insights with relevant theory. Chapters cover areas such as innovation, strategy and networking for SMEs, social media and crowdfunding, and entrepreneurial marketing in the arts, including a focus on the growing phenomenon of cultural entrepreneurship. Scholars and postgraduate students in entrepreneurship and marketing, and particularly those working on the intersections between them, will find this Handbook an invaluable read. Its examination of the efficacy of various practices will also be of great interest to marketing professionals and entrepreneurs themselves"--
