Entrepreneurship, innovation and regional development
1. Introduction / David Smallbone, Markku Virtanen and Arnis Sauka -- Part I innovation -- 2. Innovation processes in adverse institutional settings: connectedness and disconnectedness in three regions of Ukraine / Christos Kalantaridis. Svitlana Slava, Olga Savchenko and Oleksandra Gumenna -- 3. Smart specialisation as a development opportunity for the peripheral regions of eastern poland / Anna Rogut and Bogdan Piasecki -- Part II entrepreneurial activity and regional development -- 4. Entrepreneurship and industrial policy in Ireland / Colm O'Gorman and Declan Curran -- 5. Towards Europe: the small business charter and sme policy up-grading in the western Balkans / Stephen Roper and Anita Richter -- 6. Is Estonia becoming better home for "born globals"? / Tõnis Mets -- Part III entrepreneurship and SME policy -- 7. Entrepreneurial activity of the Russian population: factors of cross-regional diversity - methodology, indicators, preliminary findings / Alexander Chepurenko, Vladimir Elakhovskiy and Ekaterina Popovskaya -- 8. Entrepreneurial perceptions and entrepreneurial activity in core and peripheral regions in Estonia / Urve Venesaar and Merle Küttim -- 9. The capitalization of new firms: exploring the influence of entrepreneurial characteristics on start-up finance / Paul Robson, Tyler Chamberlin and Mark Freel -- 10. Conclusions / David Smallbone, Markku Virtanen and Arnis Sauka.
Entrepreneurship and innovation are arguably the main drivers of economic development today. This book explores the two in depth, at both the national and regional levels, using a variety of methodologies. The expert contributors discuss the subject from a policy perspective, with case studies from a host of countries including new member states of the EU as well as established EU member states. Split into three parts, the book focuses on: innovation, entrepreneurial activity and regional development, and entrepreneurship and SME policy. This book will be of interest to students and scholars of entrepreneurship and related subjects as well as to practitioners and policy-makers in the field
