The Trans-Pacific Partnership and the path to free trade area in the Asia Pacific
Mega-regionalism in the Asia Pacific has led to the formation of several emerging trade blocs, including the Trans-Pacific Partnership. This book, in addition to the examination of trade policies in the region, offers a comprehensive analysis of ongoing developments such as the impact of new members on the incumbent TPP-12 and its spillover to third parties, as well an objective study of the crucial issues of liberalization of agriculture, pharmaceuticals, and intellectual property rights. Split into three diverse sections, this book is a joint venture of many outstanding scholars in various disciplines, all with expertise in the Asia Pacific's regional affairs. These contributions provide readers with a rigorous assessment of membership enlargement and sectorial liberalization of the TPP as well as the pathways toward region-wide free trade areas. Editor Peter C.Y. Chow includes both an analysis of the trade policies of China and the US and a discussion of the impact of new members on trade complementarity, global value chains, and the US's trade balance. Detailed studies on the effect of Taiwan's membership on the US economy and industries such as agriculture, manufacturing, and service are also explored. This edited volume will attract readers interested in international trade, economic integration, and globalization. Academics and practitioners in geopolitics, geo-economics, and international relations in the Asia Pacific will also be interested
Preface -- Part I the pathways toward mega regionalism and the two major players -- 1. Pathways to free trade area in asia pacific: problems and prospects / Peter C.Y. Chow -- 2. The Trans-Pacific Partnership and America's strategic role in Asia / Claude Barfield -- 3. Wrestling over the Trans-Pacific Partnership: US strategic interests, China's responses, and Taiwan's membership options / Tun-Jen Cheng and Wei-Chin Lee -- Part II enlarging the TPP membership as a road map toward mega trade bloc -- 4. Taiwan's TPP accession: impact on the TPP12 and spillovers on third parties / Dan Ciuriak and Jingliang Xiao -- 5. Trade complementarity and natural trading partners between the US and second round of TPP members / Peter C.Y. Chow -- 6. The impact of Taiwan's TPP accession on the United States / Dan Ciuriak and Jingliang Xiao -- 7. TPP as a pathway to APEC-based FTAAP / Peter C.Y. Chow and Bo-Xian Hsu -- Part III sectorial liberalization of trade under TPP -- 8. Agriculture and TPP with or without China - a partial equilibrium analysis / Francis Tuan and Agapi Somwaru -- 9. Pharmaceuticals and traditional medicine in the Asia Pacific amidst TRIPS and TPP / Lee-In Chen Chiu -- 10. Services and income redistribution in specific factor models of the Trans-Pacific Partnership / Henry Thompson -- 11. The case for flexible intellectual property protections in TPP: how can the US do it correctly / Ching-Yi Liu.
