Advanced Structural Dynamics and Active Control of Structures
to Structures -- Standard Models -- Special Models -- Controllability and Observability -- Norms -- Model Reduction -- Actuator and Sensor Placement -- Modal Actuators and Sensors -- System Identification -- Collocated Controllers -- LQG Controllers -- H? and H2 Controllers.
Advanced Structural Dynamics and Active Control of Structures describes comparatively new areas of structural dynamics and control, and presents new tools to solve problems of dynamics and control. It applies control system methods (such as state space representation, controllability and observability, grammians, system norms, and Markov parameters) to solve structural dynamics problems (e.g., sensor and actuator placement, identification, or damage detection), It uses structural methods (such as modal analysis, and modal independence) to solve control problems (e.g., the design of LQG and H¥ controllers), and provides new insight into well-known control laws. It is based on practical applications, originated from developing and applying techniques of structural dynamics, identification, and control to antennas and radiotelescopes. It uses approximate approach in order to simplify analysis of large structural models (for example, to obtain Hankel singular values for a structure with thousands degrees of freedom), and to represent properties of large structures in closed form – a form that is simple and easy to apprehend. This book is a revision and continuation of Gawronski’s previous book, Dynamics and Control of Structures. Three new chapters discuss special models, modal actuators and sensors, and system identification. Other chapters have been significantly revised and supplemented with new topics, including discrete-time models of structures, limited-time and frequency grammians and reduction, almost-balanced modal models, simultaneous placement of sensors and actuators, and structural damage detection. The updated and expanded appendices include programs that apply methods presented in the book in Matlab® simulations, Matlab programs that solve examples from each chapter, and additional appendix with data of models presented in the book. Appropriate for graduate courses on vibration and structural dynamics, and in control system courses with application to structural control, Advanced Structural Dynamics and Active Control of Structures will also be useful for engineers who deal with structural dynamics and control. Some praise for Wodek Gawronski’s Dynamics and Control of Structures: A Modal Approach: "This book succeeds well in its intent to build a bridge between the structural engineer and the control engineer to control flexible structures. The needed ingredients to this end from both fields are presented side-by-side in an integrated fashion and illustrated by good design examples of increasing challenge. Dynamics and Control of Structures is a very good reference book …" –Applied Mechanics Reviews "… An excellent, clearly written, up-to-date exposition which should serve graduate students and researchers as a bridge between structural and control engineering." –Zentralblatt für Mathematik Wodek K. Gawronski, Ph.D. is Principal Engineer, Antenna Control Systems for the Jet Propulsion Laboratory at California Institute of Technology, and is an Associate Editor of the Journal of Guidance, Control, and Dynamics (American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics).
