A modern guide to the economics of happiness
"Exploring the modern approach to the economics of happiness, which came about with the Easterlin Paradox, this book analyses and assesses the idea that as a country gets richer the happiness of its citizens remains the same. The book moves through three distinct pillars of study in the field: first analysing the historical and philosophical foundations of the debate; then the methodological and measurements issues and their political implications; and finally empirical applications and discussion about what determines a happy life. A Modern Guide to the Economics of Happiness extends the concept of happiness to that of wellbeing, offering an inquiry into well-being within the paradigm of complex systems. It draws together both recent developments in studies on the economics of happiness as well as its historical roots, covering the concept of Eudaimonia, Aristotle's theories and the important contribution of Italian economists. Critical case studies look at the relationship between physical activity and wellbeing, the value of family for life satisfaction, and the role of social capital for migrant acceptance. An invigorating read for economics and psychology scholars, this book will also be of interest to those researching welfare and development economics"--
Contents: 1 Happiness and wellbeing: past foundations, modern evidence and future paths / Luigino Bruni, Dalila De Rosa and Alessandra Smerilli -- 2 What future happiness research? / Bruno Frey -- PART I HISTORICAL AND PHILOSOPHICAL PERSPECTIVES ON THE ECONOMICS OF HAPPINESS -- 3 Aristotle, eudaimonia, neuroscience and economics / Jeffrey Sachs -- 4 The economics of eudaimonia / Maurizio Pugno -- 5 Felicitas publica : the southern spirit of capitalism / Luigino Bruni -- 6 'Naturaliter homo homini amicus est': economy, happiness and relationships in Aquinas' thought / Paolo Santori -- PART II METHODS AND POLICY IMPLICATIONS FOR THE ECONOMICS OF HAPPINESS -- 7 Complexity and wellbeing: measurement and analysis / Filomena Maggino and Leonardo Salvatore Alaimo -- 8 Growth and happiness in China, 1990-2015 / Richard A. Easterlin, Fei Wang and Shun Wang -- 9 Economic growth and well-being beyond the Easterlin paradox / Francesco Sarracino and Kelsey J. O'Connor -- PART III EMPIRICAL APPLICATIONS IN THE ECONOMICS OF HAPPINESS -- 10 The effect of physical activity on subjective well-being: the case for exercise / Mario Lucchini, Egidio Riva and Luca Crivelli -- 11 Standing together: is family a resilience factor for subjective wellbeing? / Dalila De Rosa and Matteo Rizzolli -- 12 Cooperatives and happiness: cross-country evidence on the role of relational capital / Luigino Bruni, Dalila De Rosa and Giovanni Ferri -- 13 The relationship between migrant acceptance and wellbeing: evidence from the Gallup Migrant Acceptance Index / Neli Esipova, Julie Ray and Anita Pugliese -- Index.
