Handbook of research on corporate governance and entrepreneurship
Contents: Part I Corporate governance and entrepreneurship as a research field -- 1. Corporate governance and entrepreneurship: Current states and future directions / Jonas Gabrielsson -- 2. Governance theory: Origins and implications for researching boards and governance in entrepreneurial firms / Jonas Gabrielsson and Morten Huse -- Part II Corporate governance in start-ups and early stage ventures -- 3. Advisory boards in entrepreneurial companies / Eythor Ivar Johnson -- 4. Top management team organization of high-tech venture firms: Structural arrangements and their potential consequences / Till Talaulicar -- 5. Research on board of directors in high-tech start-ups: An assessment and suggestions for future research -- Ekaterina S. Bjornali -- 6. Corporate governance in early stage high tech ventures: The impact of top management team and outside board human capital on innovation speed / Elien Vandenbroucke and Mirjam Knockaert -- 7. The effects of private equity investors on the governance of companies -- Stefano Bonini and Vincenzo Capizzi -- Part III Corporate governance in SMEs -- 8. Corporate governance practices in smaller privately held businesses - insights from the Rhine Valley region / Susanne Durst and Julia Brunold -- 9. Alliance governance in entrepreneurial firms: The influence of family control and organizational size / Daniel Pittino, Franscesca Visintin and Paola Mazzurana -- 10. Corporate governance and innovation in small entrepreneurial firms: The board chairperson's role / Daniel Yar Hamidi and Jonas Gabrielsson -- Part IV Corporate governance in fast growing firms and IPOs -- 11. An engagement theory of governance: The dynamics of governance structures in high growth, high potential firms / Teresa Nelson and Huseyin Leblebici -- 12. Founder status and defensive mechanisms at IPO: Evidence from French firms / Asma Fattoum and Frédéric Delmar -- 13. Corporate governance and accounting in small growing firms: A comparison of financial reporting and cost of debt across Gazelles and Non-Gazelles / Marita Blomkvist and Mari Paananen -- Part V Corporate governance and corporate entrepreneurship -- 14. Corporate governance and corporate entrepreneurship in different organisational forms / Elin Smith and Sven-Olof Collin -- 15. Corporate entrepreneurship in a large company - skunk works or guided evolution? / Seppo Laukkanen, Martin Lindell and Anssi Vanioki -- Index
Issues and challenges surrounding corporate governance in entrepreneurial firms remain relatively unexamined. The Handbook of Research on Corporate Governance and Entrepreneurship brings together leading academic experts within their specific fields to examine the most important issues surrounding corporate governance in various entrepreneurial settings, including start-ups, owner-managed firms, fast-growing firms and IPOs. The Handbook also considers how corporate governance and board leadership is associated with entrepreneurship and innovation in mature companies. Detailed chapters span a wide range of topics, methodologies and levels of analysis, all designed to contribute to advancements in the understanding of corporate governance in entrepreneurial firms. The Handbook begins with a succinct investigation into governance and entrepreneurship as a research field, followed by clearly delineated and thematic parts dedicated to different business settings. Key topics include governance in early stage, high-tech ventures and dynamics of governance structures in high-growth, high-potential firms. This innovative Handbook will provide fresh insights and unique practical perspectives for advanced students and academics in business management and entrepreneurship. Collectively, the chapters provide new insights into the topic across different organizational and geographical settings and offer guidance to practitioners and policy-makers working within these domains
