Plastics flammability handbook : principles, regulations, testing, and approval
Dr. Jürgen Troitzsch is a self-employed consultant and owner of the Fire and Environment Protection Service (FEPS), which, since 1984, has provided international consultancy and scientific expertise on the fire behavior of plastics, flame retardants, polymer markets, and environmental aspects. He holds a chemistry doctorate from Aachen Technical University, Germany, and worked for 10 years on flame retardants, fire behavior of polymers, and fire testing in R&D for a major chemical company. He is known worldwide as an expert in plastics flammability, within industry, associations, academic institutions, scientific councils, and governmental authorities, and is a member of national and international committees. He has provided many studies and expert opinions, published numerous articles and reviews, and presented worldwide more than 250 papers at conferences on all aspects of fires, fire safety, polymers, flame retardants, and the environment. Since 2017, Dipl. Phys. Edith Antonatus is an independent Fire Safety Consultant. She previously held responsible positions at BASF, Dornier Aircraft, and MBB/Airbus, working in fire safety advocacy, fire behavior of plastics, fire safety regulations, testing, standardization, and research projects over the course of 35 years.
Plastics flammability is a highly important consideration in many industries, including building and construction, mass transportation, electrical and electronic equipment, wire and cable, as well as upholstered furniture and textiles. This comprehensive handbook has been, since its first edition in 1983, unrivalled as the definitive source of information on the reaction of plastics to fire, as well as on the relevant regulations and testing methods. This fourth edition is comprehensively updated throughout, with inclusion of new national and international standards, new technologies and testing procedures, and novel retardants and formulations, reflecting the current state of the art. The book is edited by the internationally renowned consultant Jürgen Troitzsch and by Edith Antonatus, who have assembled leading experts to cover their specialty areas with authority within their respective chapters.
