Flow of Funds Analysis : Innovation and Development
This book discusses the theory, methods, and applications of flow of funds analysis. The book integrates the basic principles of economic statistics, financial accounts, international finance, econometric models, and financial network analysis, providing a systematic and comprehensive introduction to the interconnection between these research fields. It thus provides the reader with the intellectual groundwork indispensable for understanding the workings and interactions of today’s globalized financial markets. The main focus of the book is how to observe the flow of funds in macroeconomics, how to measure the global flow of funds (GFF), and how to use GFF data to carry out an analysis. Based on the statistical framework for measuring GFF under the System of National Accounts, the book identifies the systematic relationship of financial linkages among economic sectors and with the rest of the world while integrating data sources that include stock data, geographically broken down by country–region, and selected financial instruments. It sets out the GFF concept and constructs a GFF matrix (metadata) on a from-whom-to-whom basis within a country-by-country pattern. Lastly, an established GFF matrix table is used to conduct an empirical study including an econometric model and financial network analysis.
Part 1: Methods and Applications for Flow of Funds Analysis -- Chapter 1. The Basic Structure and Main Modes of Flow of Funds Accounts -- Chapter 2. Statistical Observations Mentioned in Chinese Flow of Funds: 1992-2017 -- Chapter 3. Measuring the Ripple Effect and Financial Risk in China’s Flow of Funds -- Chapter 4. The Mirror Image Relationship between China and the U.S. in the External Flow of Funds -- Part 2. Measuring Global Flow of Funds -- Chapter 5. From the Flow of Funds Accounts to Global Flow of Funds Statistic -- Chapter 6. A Framework for Global Flow of Funds Matrix -- Chapter 7. Measuring Global Flow of Funds: Data Sources, Approaches and Big Data Techniques -- Chapter 8. The Theoretical Model for Global-Flow-of-Funds Analysis -- Part 3. Methods and Applications for Global Flow of Funds Analysis -- Chapter 9. A Statistical Monitoring System of Global-Flow-of-Funds: Financial Stability in China -- Chapter 10. Measuring Global Flow of Funds: A Case Study on China, Japan and the United States -- Chapter 11. Global Flow of Funds and Uncertainty: Focus on the Cross-Border Banking Financing -- Chapter 12. Financial Network Analysis on Global Flow of Funds in G20.
