Mexican literature as world literature
"Mexican Literature as World Literature is a landmark collection that, for the first time, studies the major interventions of Mexican literature of all genres in world literary circuits from the 16th century forward. This collection features a range of essays in dialogue with major theorists and critics of the concept of world literature. Authors show how the arrival of Spanish conquerors and priests, the work of enlightenment naturalists, the rise of Mexican academies, the culture of the Mexican Revolution, and Mexican neoliberalism have played major roles in the formation of world literary structures. The book features major scholars in Mexican literary studies engaging in the ways in which modernism, counterculture, and extinction have been essential to Mexico's world literary pursuit, as well as studies of the work of some of Mexico's most important authors: Sor Juana, Carlos Fuentes, Octavio Paz, and Juan Rulfo, among others. These essays expand and enrich the understanding of Mexican literature as world literature, showing the many significant ways in which Mexico has been a center for world literary circuits."--
1. Introduction / Ignacio M. Sǹchez Prado (Washington University in St. Louis, USA) -- 2. World-Making and the Poetics of the New World / Jorge Tľlez (University of Pennsylvania, USA) -- 3. Global Sor Juana / Stephanie Kirk (Washington University in St. Louis, USA) -- 4. World-Making in the New Spain in the Eighteenth Century / Karen Stolley (Emory University, USA) -- 5. On (Re)Productive Worlds: Transpacific Materiality and Mexican World Literature / Laura Torres-Rodríguez (New York University, USA) -- 6. World-Making in Nineteenth-Century Mexico / Shelley Garrigan (North Carolina State University, USA) -- 7. Rethinking Mexican Modernismo and World Literature / Adela Pineda Franco (Boston University, USA) -- 8. World-Making in the Twentieth Century: The Rise of Mexican World-Literary Institutions / Ignacio M. Sǹchez Prado (Washington University in St. Louis, USA) -- 9. From Post-Revolutionary Cosmopolitanisms to Pre-Bolaǫ Infrarealism: Mexican Avant-Garde Literatures in/as World Literature / Sara Potter (University of Texas in El Paso, USA) -- 10. Beyond the Literary Field: Octavio Paz in World Literature / Manuel Gutiřrez Silva (University of California-Los Angeles, USA) -- 11. The Brief History of an Anthology of Mexican Poetry / Gustavo Guerrero (Cergy Paris Universit,̌ France) -- 12. Juan Rulfo's World Literary Consciousness / Nuala Finnegan (University College Cork, Ireland) -- 13. Uno se sale de uno para verse viendo : Mexican Countercultural Literature as Psychedelic Interventions of World Literature / Ivǹ Eusebio Aguirre Darancou (University of California-Riverside, USA) -- 14. Carlos Fuentes and World Literature / Pedro ℓngel Palou (Tufts University, USA) -- 15. Neoliberalism, Distinction, and World Literature in Mexico in the Twenty-First Century / Oswaldo Zavala (College of Staten Island & The Graduate Center, CUNY, USA) -- 16. Planetary Poetics of Extinction in Contemporary Mexican Poetry / Carolyn Fornoff (University of Illinois-Urbana Champaign, USA) -- Index.
