Handbook of research on franchising
Franchising is one of the major engines of business expansion and job creation globally. The Handbook of Research on Franchising contains original work by leading franchise scholars from around the world who offer new insights into entrepreneurial behavior, organizational forms, regulation, internationalization and other contemporary issues relating to this dynamic business strategy. The book will provide readers with a base of knowledge about the entrepreneurial opportunities and behaviors of franchisors and franchisees as well as explore the forms that franchise organizations may take, the regulation of franchise companies, how franchisors and franchisees relate to one another, the development of the franchise model, franchising in emerging markets, social franchising and more. It introduces theory and sets the agenda for future research and adds to education and practice. Practitioners will benefit from the high quality scientific research, and scholars will find exciting opportunities for contributing to the body of knowledge on a subject that has not received sufficient attention. The research contained in this book will also be of value to franchisors, franchisees, service providers and government regulators
Contents: in memoriam by Patrick Kaufmann -- Foreward by Francine Lafontaine -- 1. Research contributions to understanding franchising / Frank Hoy, Rozenn Perrigot and Andrew Terry -- Part I Entrepreneurship -- 2. Managing entrepreneurial tensions in franchise systems / Anna Watson and Lola Dada -- 3. Implications of family firms in franchising / Dianne H.B. Welsh and Frank Hoy -- 4. Autonomy in franchising / Odile Streed and Gérard Cliquet -- Part II -- Organizational Forms -- 5. A multi-national investigation of dual distribution structures in franchising / Brinja Meiseberg and Thomas Ehrmann -- 6. Exploring the growth of multi-unit franchising / Benjamin Lawrence, Cyril Pietrafesa and Patrick J. Kaufmann -- 7. The relationship between initial and ongoing fees in franchising: a meta-analysis / Farhad Sadeh and Manish Kacker -- Part III regulation -- 8. Franchising hard law and soft law / Robert W. Emerson -- 9. The obligation of good faith and its role in franchise regulation / Andrew Terry, Cary Di Lernia and Rozenn Perrigot -- Part IV Franchisor/franchisee relationships -- 10. Understanding antecedents of franchisee trust / Evelien Croonen -- 11. Franchisor-franchisee relationships / Lorelle Frazer and Anthony Grace -- 12. Knowledge transfer in franchising / Nina Gorovaia -- Part V marketing -- 13. Resale price maintenance in franchising: market coverage, company-owned stores, and retailer-dependence / Robert Stassen -- 14. E-commerce opportunities and challenges for franchise chains / Rozenn Perrigot, Guy Basset and Gérard Cliquet -- Part VI Internationalization -- 15. International franchising: optimal market selection / E. Hachemi Aliouche -- 16. Internationalization of franchise networks / Maria Jell-Ojobor and Josef Windsperger -- 17. Determinants of master international franchising / Maria Jell-Ojobor and Ilan Alon -- 18. International franchising: influences of environmental uncertainty and munificence on market entry timing / Melih Madanoglu and Gary J. Castrogiovanni -- Part VII Performance -- 19. Performance in franchising networks / Magali Chaudey and Muriel Fadairo -- 20. Retail network organizational design and financial performance / Karine Picot-Coupey, Jean-Laurent Viviani and Paul Amadieu -- Part VIII Emerging Markets  -- 21. Franchising in Southeast Asia: prerequisites, progress and prospects / Andrew Terry and Marko Grünhagen -- 22. Franchising in Latin America / Muriel Fadairo and Cintya Lanchimba -- 23. An exploration of franchising in Africa / Rozenn Perrigot -- 24. The entrepreneur-franchisor in an emerging economy / Audhesh Paswan, María de los Dolores Santarriaga Pineda and Francisco Carlos Soto Ramirez -- Part IX Social Franchising -- 25. An introduction to social franchising / Anita Du Toit -- 26. The social franchise model: a systems approach of the dynamics of institutions and embeddedness in social franchise formation / Fiori A. Zafeiropoulou -- Index.
