Theoretical approaches to economic growth and development : an interdisciplinary perspective
This book provides the theoretical and analytical background critical to understand the process of economic development and growth at the beginning of the 21st century. This book adopts an interdisciplinary approach, using concepts borrowed from related disciplines such as politics, anthropology, psychology, business, and more. The core theme of this book is the argument that different theoretical approaches constitute excellent creative contributions, the study of which is necessary for a complete understanding of development and growth. Thus, this book stands out for its theoretical pluralistic character. The first part of the book provides an introduction to essential methodology terms for the theory of economic development and growth, while the second part outlines important concepts of economic behavior. Part three focuses on the sources of economic growth and their evolution throughout history, and pays special attention to the main theories related to economic growth as well as to the growth and development implications of Covid-19. The book ends with an analysis of international financial architecture and the consolidated financial transaction framework.
1. The Methodological Puzzle -- 2. Introduction to General and Integrated Development and Growth -- 3. Economic Action, Cultural Background and Institutions -- 4. Complex Economic Systems, Information and Forms of Capitalism -- 5. Politics and Governance -- 6. Uncertainty -- 7. Expectations -- 8. Entrepreneurship -- 9. Evolution of Economy and Economic Thought -- 10. The Sources of Growth from the Birth of Economics to the Rise of the New Era -- 11. The Sources of Growth from the Beginning of Economics to the Emergence of the New Era: Equilibrium, Evolutionary Development, Schumpeter and Keynes -- 12. Neoclassical Synthesis and Keynesian Development -- 13. Solowian Growth and AK Models -- 14. International Trade Relations, Optimum Currency Areas, Externalities and Public Choice -- 15. The Era of Low Growth and High Inflation: Contemporary International Trade Theories, New Classics, New Keynesian, Human Capital, Contractization Theories, and Behavioral Economics Under Uncertainty -- 16. The Great Moderation, Real Business Cycles and Dynamic General Equilibrium Models -- 17. Endogenous Growth, Convergence and Evolutionism -- 18. The Macroeconomic and Development Debate after the Great Recession: The European Crisis, Deleveraging and Secular Stagnation -- 19. The Macroeconomic and Development Debate after the Great Recession: Fiscal Space, Multipliers and GDP, Debt Supercycle and Supply-Side Economics -- 20. Growth and Development Implications of Covid-19 -- 21. International Financial Architecture -- 22. Central Banks, Reserve Currencies, International Chains, and International Interactions.
