Organic solutes, oxidative stress and antioxidant enzymes under abiotic stressors
"This book presents evidence-based approaches and techniques used to diagnose and manage organic solutes, oxidative stress, and antioxidant enzymes in crop plants under abiotic stressors. It discusses strategies in abiotic stress tolerance including osmoregulation, osmoprotectants, and the regulation of compatible solutes and antioxidant enzymes in plants. With contributions from 49 scholars worldwide, this authoritative guide is educational for scientists working with plants and abiotic stressors"--
Abiotic stresses and their interactions with each other on plant growth, development and defense mechanisms / Murat Dikilitas, Eray Simsek, Sema Karakas, Arafat Abdel Hamed Abdel Latef -- Contribution of organic solutes in amelioration of salt stress in plants / Vinay Shankar, Heikham Evelin -- Significance of Organic Solutes in Modulating Plant Inherent Responses Under Heavy Metal Stress / Aditi Bisht, Neera Garg -- Role of organic solutes on mineral stress tolerance / Md. Tahjib-Ul-Arif, Shagata Islam Shorna, Mohammed Arif Sadik Polash, Md Rezwanul Haque, Mohammad Golam Kibria, Mohammad Saidur Rhaman, M. Afzal Hossain -- Contents of organic solutes in horticultural plants and crops under environmental pollutants / Seyedeh-Somayyeh Shafiei-Masouleh -- Oxidative stress tolerance in response to salinity in plants / Nageswara Rao Reddy Neelapu, Titash Dutta, Shabir H. Wani, Challa Surekha -- Oxidative stress in plants exposed to heavy metal / Amna Shoaib, Arshad Javaid -- Arsenic and oxidative stress in plants: Induction and scavenging / Shyna Bhalla, Neera Garg -- The key roles of proline against heat, drought and salinity induced oxidative stress in wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) / Akbar Hossain, Sourav Garai, Mousumi Mondal, Arafat Abdel Hamed Abdel Latef -- Oxidative stress alleviation by modulation of the antioxidant system under environmental stressors / Farhan Ahmad, Aisha Kamal -- Antioxidant enzymes and salt stress in plants / Siamak Shirani Bidabadi, Parisa Sharifi, Arafat Abdel Hamed Abdel Latef -- Antioxidant enzymes and their genetic mechanism in alleviating drought stress in plants / Yasser S. Moursi, Mona F. A. Dawood, Ahmed Sallam, Samar G. Thabet, Ahmad M. Alqudah -- Extreme temperatures induced osmotic and oxidative stress: defensive role of organic solutes and antioxidants / Amandeep Cheema, Neera Garg -- Insights into the enzymatic antioxidants and their genetic expressions responses of plants to heavy metals / Mona F.A. Dawood, Amira M.I. Mourad, Dalia Z. Alomari, Arafat Abdel Hamed Abdel Latef -- Role of non-enzymatic antioxidant defense mechanisms in imparting heavy metal, salt, water and temperature stress tolerance in plants /&nbsp; Kiran Saroy, Neera Garg -- Regulatory role of UV-B in modulating antioxidant defence system of plants / Abreeq Fatima, Madhulika Singh, Sheo Mohan Prasad -- Ozone and enzymatic and non-enzymatic antioxidant enzymes in plants / Muhammad Shahedul Alam, Arafat Abdel Hamed Abdel Latef, Md. Ashrafuzzaman -- Non-enzymatic antioxidants play a significant role in abiotic stress tolerance in crop plants / Bharathi Raja Ramadoss, Usharani Subramanian, Manivannan Alagarsamy, Manu Pratap Gangola.
