Digital games and language learning : theory, development and implementation
Foreword / Jozef Colpert (The University of Antwerp, Belgium) Acknowledgements -- 1. Digital games and language learning: the state of play / Mark Peterson (Kyoto University Japan), Kasumi Yamazaki (University of Toledo, USA) and Michael Thomas ( Liverpool John Moores University, UK) -- Part I. Theory and research. 2. A critical review of game-based learning, gamification and second language acquisition / Silvia Benini and Michael Thomas (University of Central Lancashire, UK) ; 3. Second language development in the context of massively multiplayer online games: theoretical perspectives / Nasser Jabbari (University of Essex, UK) ; 4. Not all MMOGs are created equal: a design-informed approach to the study of L2 learning in multiplayer online games / Jonathon Reinhardt (University of Arizona, USA) ; 5. Human linguistics as a framework for analyzing simulation-gaming / Douglas W. Coleman (University of Toledo, USA) Part II: Development and Implementation of Digital Games in CALL ; 6. Playing with digital game pedagogies / Alex Bacalja and Kate Euphemia Clark (University of Melbourne, Australia) ; 7. The use of avatars in digital role-playing games (RPGS ) in computer-assisted language learning (CALL) / Charly Harbord, Euan Dempster and Darshana Jayemanne (Abertay University, UK) ; 8. Reinforcing international students' language skills for disaster preparedness / Kazuhiro Yonemoto (Tokyo Medical and Dental University, Japan) ; 9.The relationship between extramural digital gameplay and 21st century skills in the language classroom / Daniel J. Mills and Benjamin Thanyawatpokin (Ritsumeikan University, Japan) ; 10. Gaming as a gateway to L2 English learning / Liss Kerstin Sylven (University of Gothenburg, Sweden) -- Part III. Towards the future of game-based language learning. 11. Issues in the current state of teaching languages with games / Benjamin Thanyawatpokin   (Ritsumeikan University, Japan) and James York (Tokyo Denki University, Japan) ; 12. Is game-based language teaching "Vaporware"? / Jonathan deHaan (University of Shizuoka, Japan).
"Due to the rapid development of gaming technologies in recent years, there has been a surge of interest in the role that digital games can play in foreign and second language learning. Bringing together innovative research from an international team of contributors, this book provides a comprehensive overview of the use of digital games in computer-assisted language learning (CALL). The book firstly lays the theoretical foundations and outlines various rationales for using digital games, incorporating contemporary theories of second language acquisition. It also explores the development and impact of digital games designed specifically for language learning, giving due consideration to design principles, pedagogical requirements and student health. Chapters then draw on case studies from Europe and Japan to analyse in-game interaction, attitudes and participation in both institutional and out-of-classroom settings.  Seamlessly combining theory with practical application, this book outlines recent developments in the field and the direction of future research, and is a valuable resource for instructors, researchers and practitioners who are designing games or looking to use them in their classrooms."--
