The money masters : the progress and power of central banks
Central banks are major players in today's economic and financial policy making. While respected for their technical acumen and their pivotal role in defusing the global financial crisis, they are at the same time mistrusted by others and considered to be too powerful. In order to contribute to a better understanding of the why, what and how of central banking, this book traces the progress of central banks from modest beginnings, including financing wars, to the powerful institutions they have become. It describes the evolution of the Bank of England to a fully-fledged central bank, the very different route taken by the Federal Reserve and, much later, by the European Central Bank. The gold standard, floating exchange rates, and the battle against inflation are covered in depth, alongside a review of modern monetary policy and central banks' role in maintaining financial stability. Throughout the book, the ups and downs of central banks' relationship vis-a-vis their governments are a recurring theme, even surmising that reigning in the independence of central banks risks inflicting serious damage to economic and financial stability. Uncovering the challenges that the money masters may face in an uncertain future, this book will be of interest to academics, researchers and practitioners in central banking, finance, and economics at large.
Chapter 1. Introduction -- Chapter 2. From War Financier to Bankers’ Bank -- Chapter 3. Central Banks under the Gold Standard -- Chapter 4. The Federal Reserve: A Unique Institution -- Chapter 5. From War to War: 1914-1939 -- Chapter 6. Post-war Progress: 1946-1960 -- Chapter 7. The 1960s: Growth and Stability -- Chapter 8. Overcoming the Great Inflation -- Chapter 9. Central Banks and the Great Moderation -- Chapter 10: A New Power: The European Central Bank -- Chapter 11. The Global Financial Crisis and Recession -- Chapter 12. Modern Monetary Policy -- Chapter 13. Maintaining Financial Stability -- Chapter 14. An Uncertain Future. .
