Fertigation technologies for micro irrigated crops : performance, requirements, and efficiency
Performance of Drip-Irrigated Tomato: Water Uptake, Root Distribution, and Quality / Rajan Aggarwal, Ajay Kumar Vashisht, and Narinder K. Narda -- Performance of Cucumber under Micro- and Mini Sprinkler -- Irrigation with Land Slopes / R. Chelleng, Anamika Yadav, Laxmi Narayan Sethi, Sudipto Sarkar, and Avinash Kumar -- Performance of Selected Indigenous Crops under Drip Irrigation in the North-East Region of India / Pankaj Barua -- Performance of Pointed Gourd under Polyethylene Mulching and Different Levels of Fertigation / Abinash Dalai and P. C. Pradhan -- Effects of Different Nitrogen Levels on Drip-Irrigated Cucumber under Greenhouse Conditions / S. K. Pattanaaik and P. Debnath -- Performance of Sunflower with Different Irrigation Methods: Coastal Plain Zone of Eastern India / Arati Sethi, Narayan Sahoo, Balram Panigrahi, Benukantha Dash, and Lala I. P. Ray -- Summer kusmi Lac Production on Drip Irrigated Flemingia semialata Roxb / R. K. Singh -- Estimation of Crop Water Requirements / Vyas Pandey -- Potential Applications of DSSAT, AquaCrop, APSIM Models for Crop Water Productivity and Irrigation Scheduling / Mukhtar Ahmed, Shakeel Ahmad, Shah Fahad, and Fayyaz-Ul-Hassan -- Soil Moisture and Nutrient Patterns under Subsurface Drip Irrigation for Sustainable Sugarcane Initiative / M. Manikandan and G. Thiyagarajan -- Automated Drip Irrigation System for Sweet Corn and Cluster Bean: Field Evaluation of Low-Cost Soil Moisture Sensor / G. Ravi Babu and N. V. Gowtham Deekshithulu -- Fertigation Technology for Horticultural and Field Crops / Raja Gopala Reddy, Kamlesh N. Tiwari, and Santosh D. T. -- Hydraulic Performance of Drip Fertigation Equipment / E. K. Kurien, Nadiya Nesthad, Anu Varghese, and E. K. Mathew -- Micro-irrigation Developments in India: Techno-Economic Challenges / Manoj P. Samuel and A. Suresh -- Drip Irrigation Systems for Enhancing Input Use Efficiency / K. V. Ramana Rao and Suchi Gangwar -- Rainwater Conservation and Utilization Techniques: The North-East Hilly Region in India / Jotish Nongthombam and Santosh Kumar -- Design of Indigenous Gravity Drip Irrigation System for Efficient Utilization of Harvested Water / Dhiraj Khalkho, R. K. Naik, S. K. Patil, Yatnesh Bisen, and D. S. Thakur.
"Fertigation Technologies for Micro Irrigated Crops: Performance, Requirements, and Efficiency addresses the global water crisis by presenting new ways to use irrigation water judiciously through innovative fertigation management. It looks at the research and review works done throughout the world on micro irrigation and the techno-economic feasibility of various fertigation irrigation water management systems. Taking a multidisciplinary perspective, the chapters look at Using fertigation to increase the effectiveness of irrigation systems Crop performance evaluation of various crops under fertigation and irrigation methods Estimating levels of crop requirements Scheduling of fertigation and irrigation New fertigation equipment and technology Cost components of the various irrigation and fertigation systems This book will be a helpful resource for agricultural industry professionals, faculty, students, and others involved in irrigation and fertigation technology"--
