Carbon Based Nanomaterials
Volume is indexed by Thomson Reuters BCI (WoS).Carbon is an essential constituent element of all living organisms. A unique feature of carbon is the variety of forms that it can assume when two or more atoms bond. Carbon has thus attracted, and continues to attract, considerable R&D interest from researchers all over the world. The use of carbon in nanotechnology is a very promising area of research, and considerable government funding is being invested in carbon nanotechnology research. Even after many years of study, an aura of mystery continues to surround the question of how many crystallographic forms/allotropes of carbon exist. The known forms of carbon are: graphene, graphite, diamond, nanotubes, fullerenes (C60, C36….) and nanodiamondoids. Each of these forms of carbon is characterized by different numbers of hybrid orbitals (sp2, sp3, sp).This work comprises ten comprehensive chapters, on carbon-based materials, written by experts in the field. The chapters contain up-to-date fundamental and practical information concerning carbon-based materials. They include work on diamondoid hydrocarbons, carbon nanotubes, nanocrystalline/microcrystalline/ultra-nanocrystalline diamond and carbon nanostructured materials, thus providing an uniquely valuable introduction to the subjecy. Being one of the most flexible elements, carbon draws a lot of attention in most areas of science, and the 10 extended studies here show how it is figuring in the science of materials manipulated at the nanometer scale. They cover diamonoid hydrocarbons; carbon nanotubes as electron sources; nanocrystalline diamond coatings for advanced acoustic devices; depositing nanocrystalline diamond by Ar/H2/CH4 microwave discharges; the growth, properties, and applications of thick self-standing blocks of multi-walled carbon nanotubes; chemical vapor deposition as a route to microcrystalline, nanocrystalline, ultrananocrystalline, and single-crystal diamond films; the synthesis, atomic structures, and properties of carbon nanostructured materials; chemical vapor deposited diamond for thermoplastic injection molds; composites of carbon nanotubes and polymers for biomedical applications; and nanostructured coatings. There is no index.
