Handbook of research on food processing and preservation technologies / edited by Megh R. Goyal, Preeti Birwal, Monika Sharma ; Volume 3: Computer-aided food processing and quality evaluation techniques
Radio Frequency Identification (RFID): Basic Principles and Applications in Food Industry / Varsha Kanojia, Swati Kapoor, and Gagandeep Kaur Sidhu -- Applications of Radio Frequency Heating Technology in Food Processing / R. Pandiselvam, V. Prithviraj, and Anjineyulu Kothakota -- Potential Use of Robotics in the Food Industry / Ajay Chinchkar, Meenatai G. Kamble, and Anurag Singh -- Three-Dimensional Printing of Food Products: Printing Techniques, Novel Applications, and Printable Food Materials / Leena Kumari, Monika Sharma, and Neelam Upadhyay -- Role of Artificial Intelligence for Quality Evaluation of Food Products / Amit Kumar Juneja, V. K. Ammu, and Dharinkumar Bharatkumar Jayswal -- Advances in Color Measurement of Food Products / Prashant Saurabh Minz, Charanjiv Singh Saini, Ashish Kumar Singh, and Chitranayak Sinha -- Terahertz Spectroscopy Imaging Technique: Non-Destructive Tool for Evaluation of Quality and Safety of Food Products / Amreena Jan, R. Pandiselvam, Anjineyulu Kothakota, N. U. Sruthi, and S. V. Ramesh -- Food Labeling as a Marketing and Quality Assurance (QA) Tool / Samreen Siddiqui, Rashi Khatri, and G. Nagamaniammai -- Detection of Pesticides in Fruits and Vegetables: Principles and Methods / Krishna Gopalakrishnan, Rohit Kumar, Rajasree Ranjit, Arun Sharma, and Pramod K. Prabhakar -- Mathematical Analysis of Moisture Sorption in Food Products / Naveen Jose, Menon Rekha Ravindra, and Gajanan P. Deshmukh -- Numerical Methods and Modeling Techniques in Food Processing / R. Pandiselvam, V. Prithviraj, Anjineyulu Kothakota, Anu Suprabha Raj, Manoj Kumar Pulivarthi, and Kaliramesh Siliveru -- Energy Storage Using Phase Change Materials: Principles, Methods, Numerical Simulations, and Applications in Food Processing / Ravi Prakash and Menon Rekha Ravindra -- Dielectric Properties of Animal Source Foods (ASF) and Its Applications for Quality Evaluation / Rajasree Ranjit, Arun Sharma, Pramod K. Prabhakar, and Neela Emanuel.
"The Handbook of Research on Food Processing and Preservation Technologies is a rich 5-volume collection that illustrates various design, development, and applications of novel and innovative strategies for food processing and preservation. The roles and applications of minimal processing techniques (such as ozone treatment, vacuum drying, osmotic dehydration, dense phase carbon dioxide treatment, pulsed electric field, and high-pressure assisted freezing) are discussed, along with a wide range of other applications. The handbook also explores some exciting computer-aided techniques emerging in the food processing sector, such as robotics, radio frequency identification (RFID), three-dimensional food printing, artificial intelligence, etc. Some emphasis has also been given on nondestructive quality evaluation techniques (such as image processing, terahertz spectroscopy imaging technique, near infrared, Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy technique, etc.) for food quality and safety evaluation. The significant roles of food properties in the design of specific foods and edible films have been elucidated as well. Volume 3: Computer-Aided Food Processing and Quality Evaluation Techniques of the multi-volume set reports on a number of applications of computer-aided techniques for quality evaluation and to secure food quality. The chapter authors present emerging nonthermal approaches for food processing and preservation including a detailed discussion on color measurement techniques, RFID, 3D-food printing, potential of robotics, artificial intelligence, terahertz spectroscopy imaging technique, instrumentation techniques and transducers, food labeling as marketing and quality assurance tool, detection of pesticides, mathematical simulation of moisture sorption in food products, numerical methods and modeling techniques, concept of phase change materials, and dielectric properties of animal source foods"--
