Handbook on place branding and marketing
Contents: Section 1: Place branding: strategies and perspectives -- 1. The state of art: from country-of-origin to strategies for economic development / Adriana Campelo -- 2. Place branding in strategic spatial planning: challenges and opportunities of branding regions  / Eduardo Oliveira and Gregory Ashworth -- 3. The cultural branding matrix: framing the relation between cultural institutions and city branding / Cecilia Pasquinelli -- 4. 'Like a pair of worn-out slippers': place attraction factors among return migrants to peripheral places / Helle Dalsgaard Pedersen and Anette Therkelsen -- Section 2: Place making -- 5. Place brand meaning-making: culture, ethos and habitus / Adriana Campelo -- 6. "I love this place": tourists' destination brand love / Kathryn Swanson, Dominic Medway, and Gary Warnaby -- 7. Programmatic authenticity: culinary place branding in Greenland / Søren Askegaard, Dannie Kjeldgaard, and Eric Arnould -- 8. Smell it, taste it, listen it, touch it, and see it to make sense of this place / Adriana Campelo -- Section 3: Methodologies for place branding -- 9. Multisensory place branding: a manifesto for research / Dominic Medway and Gary Warnaby -- 10. Place branding and place narratives / Maria Lichrou, Maurice Patterson and Lisa O'Malley -- 11. Place brand biography: something special or same old story? / Stephen Brown -- Section 4: Urban issues -- 12. Mobility, marketing, and the experience of the city / Gary Warnaby and Christopher J. Parker -- 13. Pretty vacant? -- Implications of neglect and emptiness for urban aesthetics and place branding / Gary Warnaby and Dominic Medway -- 14. Trends and final remarks / Adriana Campelo -- Index.
Place branding as an academic field is both challenging and under explored. In the face of an ever-expanding global urban population, this Handbook illustrates how place branding can contribute to transforming urban agglomeration into sustainable and healthy areas. The Chapters cover four key areas; place branding as a tool for economic development, experiences of place making, methodologies to develop place brands, and urban regeneration. Pioneering experts provide in-depth analysis on the politics and significance of place branding's inclusion in economic development programs, the multisensory dimensions of sense of place, and new epistemologies and methodologies for research. They further examine the role of place marketing in combatting challenges for future cities such as mobility, aesthetics and metropolitan conurbation. Students and scholars in management, marketing and economics will find this innovative and contemporary Handbook a must read. Eminently practical, it will also benefit policy makers and place planners, alongside consultants on public policies. Place branding as an academic field is both challenging and under explored. In the face of an ever-expanding global urban population, this Handbook illustrates how place branding can contribute to transforming urban agglomeration into sustainable and healthy areas. The Chapters cover four key areas; place branding as a tool for economic development, experiences of place making, methodologies to develop place brands, and urban regeneration. Pioneering experts provide in-depth analysis on the politics and significance of place branding's inclusion in economic development programs, the multisensory dimensions of sense of place, and new epistemologies and methodologies for research. They further examine the role of place marketing in combatting challenges for future cities such as mobility, aesthetics and metropolitan conurbation. Students and scholars in management, marketing and economics will find this innovative and contemporary Handbook a must read. Eminently practical, it will also benefit policy makers and place planners, alongside consultants on public policies
