Bulk amorphous alloys : practical characteristics and applications
The rapidly growing interest in bulk amorphous alloys has increasingly called for a substantial review to be made of the work published during the last ten years. Such a definitive review has now been published in two volumes. The present book focuses on the practical characteristics and applications of bulk amorphous alloys. The topics covered include: mechanical properties, corrosion resistance, soft magnetic properties, magnetostrictive properties, hard magnetic properties, viscous flow, micro-formability, consolidation behavior, dispersion strengthening by ceramic particles, nanocrystallization effects and cold workability.A previous volume on bulk amorphous alloys (published as Materials Science Foundations Vol. 4, 1998) dealt with the preparation and fundamental characteristics of bulk amorphous alloys.The present volume is an invaluable source of immediately a pplicable information and is an up-to-date authoritative assessment of the state of the art in this interesting field.Contents Sections: 1. Mechanical Properties. 2. Corrosion Resistance of Bulk Amorphous Alloys. 3. Soft Magnetic Bulk Amorphous Alloys. 4. High Magnetostrictive Bulk Amorphous Alloys. 5. Hard Magnetic Bulk Amorphous Alloys. 6. Viscous Flow and Micro-Formability of Supercooled Liquid. 7. Bulk Amorphous Alloys Produced by Powder Consolidation. 8. Bulk Amorphous Alloys Containing ZrC Particles. 9. Bulk Nanocrystalline Alloys Prepared by Partial Crystallization. 10. Cold workability of bulk amorphous alloys containing nanocrystalline particles. 11. Applications. 12. References. Overviews work of the past 10 years on bulk amorphous alloys, focusing on practical characteristics and applications of these alloys. Contains chapters on mechanical properties, corrosion resistance, soft and hard magnetic bulk amorphous alloys, high magnetostrictive properties, viscous flow and micro-formability of supercooled liquid, alloys produced by powder consolidation, alloys containing ZrC particles, bulk nanocrystalline alloys prepared by partial crystallization, and cold workability of alloys containing nanocrystalline particles. Includes b&w microscopic images. The author is affiliated with the Institute for Materials Research, Tohoku University.
