Open channel design : fundamentals and applications
"With many excellent texts on Open Channel Hydraulics and Sediment Transport, why is another book needed? Available texts represent excellent tools for graduate instruction. We stand on the shoulders of giants in the field such as V.T. Chow, H.A. Einstein, Jr., to mention only a few. Undergraduates generally find the available books to be somewhat intimidating. Available texts tend not to have accessible supporting software. In a knowledge domain where most problems require iterative solutions, a need exists for software to fill a void, especially for undergraduates. The presentation of concepts in Open Channel hydraulics in available texts is more oriented to graduate students who have a solid knowledge of basic concepts. This text supports a split-level class that is mostly undergraduate in composition. Planning for the book began just before the COVID19 pandemic. The move to online courses in response to the COVID-19 pandemic caused many educators to rethink course delivery. In-class and online education, in our experience, is most effective when content is delivered to undergraduates in modules sequentially build on the previously presented material. In our view, an online presentation stresses the need to be as sequential as possible because student interaction becomes more challenging than face-to-face delivery. Another guiding factor in the book organization was to present many design approaches for uniform flow as earlier as possible. Chapter 4 mostly completes the coverage of uniform flow. Early uniform flow presentation enables students to have a toolbox for solving many practical design problems early in the semester. The front-loading of uniform flow allows students to begin working on design projects early in the term. We then present nonuniform flow and unsteady flow topics, enabling their addition to design projects as needed. Graduate students start to work on topics in Chapter 10, which flows from Chapter 4. Graduate students also do extra work on topics related to nonuniform and nonsteady flows as the course continues"--
