Novel enzymes for functional carbohydrates production : from scientific research to application in health food industry
Introduction -- Recent advances in ketose 3-epimerase and its application for D-allulose production -- D-Mannose-producing isomerases and epimerases properties, comparisons and different strategies -- L-Arabinose isomerase: sources, biochemical properties and its use for the production of D-tagatose -- Various enzymes for the biotechnological production of D-allose -- Characteristics of cellobiose 2-epimerase and its application in enzymatic production of epilactose -- Lactulose-producing enzymes: functions, structures, and applications -- Enzymatic production of lactosucrose by levansucrase, β-fructofuranosidase and β-galactosidase -- Difructose anhydrides-producing fructotransferase: Characteristics, catalytic mechanism, and applications -- Characteristics of levansucrase and its application for the preparation of levan and levan-type oligosaccharides -- Inulosucrase: an effective transfructosylation tool for the synthesis of microbial inulin -- Amylosucrase: a versatile sucrose-utilizing transglucosylase for glycodiversification -- Glucansucrases derived from lactic acid bacteria to synthesize multitudinous α-glucan -- Trends in enzyme technology for functional carbohydrates production.
This book focuses on the latest research and new techniques in the field of functional carbohydrate-related enzymes. Carbohydrates are a key form of energy for most organisms. The “good” carbohydrates generally refer to functional carbohydrates. In addition to the low or moderate energy-supplying function, they have more nutritious value than traditional carbohydrates and some of them also have health-promoting effects especially prebiotic actions. Several enzymatic methods for the synthesis of such carbohydrates have been discovered and developed in the recent decades, providing a new range of application areas for these novel enzymes. This book addresses the classification of functional carbohydrate-related enzymes and the overall development in food enzyme in Chapter 1. Chapters 2-5 describe the isomerases or epimerases involved in the production of rare sugars, such as D-allulose, D-mannose, D-tagatose, and D-allose. While the studies of the enzymes related to fructo-oligosaccharides (FOS) and galacto-oligosaccharides (GOS) dominate the scientific literature in the field of enzymatic production of health-functional oligosaccharides, some enzymes also show promise for the emerging oligosaccharide production, which are introduced in Chapters 6-8. Chapters 9-12 summarize the new enzymatic technologies and applications in fructan- and glycan-related industries. The last Chapter gives an overall prospective on the trends of enzymatic functional carbohydrate production. This book is a valuable resource for researchers and graduate students in the fields of biotechnology, enzyme engineering, and carbohydrate production, as well as the health industry.
