Genomics of plant-pathogen interaction and the stress response
"Plants are indispensable part of human and animal lives for nutrition and health. But pests, diseases and abiotic stress adversely affect crop yield and it ultimately causes huge pressure on society to provide food to increasing population. Moreover, it also induces increased chemical/pesticide usage on crops which again comes before us in form of biomagnification of toxic and hazardous compounds polluting over water bodies, soil, and environment. This condition is going to be worse in future due to resistance acquiring ability of pathogens against plant defence and chemical treatments. Beside this, environmental disturbance and consumer health issues are being reported more promptly than before due to intensive use of pesticide in food production. Plant diseases are affecting our daily lives as food having insecticides and pesticides has become a part of our food chain. So, precise disease diagnosis and management is most crucial to avoid huge losses in plant production and related commodities. So, accurate detection, precise diagnosis, and proper management can play a significant role in keeping plants free from pathogens. In this book, scientists, researchers, and scholars share their research knowledge which will provide valuable source for understanding plant diseases, pathogen interaction and response to stress through omics perspective and it will ultimately contribute to further advancements in the field. Diseases in plant may be caused by various factors such as viruses, bacteria, fungi, and abiotic stress etc. It causes low crop yield, production of poor-quality fruits and grains, deficiency of nutrients which have direct impact on human and animal health. Genomics based approached can be used for disease diagnosis, disease outbreak, evolution of plant and pathogen genome for disease outbreak in relation to climate change, and be helpful in development of long-term strategies for plant health and defence. This book presents an overview of omics technologies and approaches used to understand. relation between plant and its environment in terms of diseases response to abiotic stress genomics of plant-pathogen interaction herbicide resistance mechanisms epigenetics of plant-pathogen interaction gene regulation during abiotic stress response oxidative stress response"--
