Climate change and pragmatic engineering mitigation
Ocean, Weather, and Climate Change / Graham T. Reader -- Environmental Impact Assessment of the Roof Insulation Materials during Life Cycle / Lutfu S. Sua and Figen Balo -- Mathematical Radiation Models for Sustainable Innovation in Smart and Clean Cities / Figen Balo and Lutfu S. Sua -- Improving Heat Transfer Efficiency with Innovative Turbulence Generators / Yang Yang, David S.-K. Ting, and Steve Ray -- Effect of Ambient Temperature and Wind on Solar PV Efficiency in a Cold Arctic Climate / Avinash Singh, Paul Henshaw, and David S.-K. Ting -- A Review of Current Development in Photovoltaic-Thermoelectric Hybrid Power Systems / Xi Wang, Paul Henshaw, and David S.-K. Ting -- Low-Risk Engineering Adaptation Strategies to Climate Change Impacts at Individual Level in Urban Areas : A Developing Country's Viewpoint / Ariva Sugandi Permana and Arthit Petchsasithon -- Analysis of Gender Differences in Thermal Sensations in Outdoor Thermal Comfort : A Field Survey in Northern India / Pardeep Kumar and Amit Sharma -- Urbanization and Food in the Biodigital Age / Secil Afsar, Alberto T. Estévez, and Yomna K. Abdallah -- How Hydrogen Can Become a Low-Risk Solution for a Climate-Neutral Denmark by 2050 / Katarzyna Agnieszka Wierciszewska and George Xydis.
This volume brings together 18 experts with diverse backgrounds and expertise from around the globe to tackle climate change from multiple angles. A comprehensive exposition of the interconnection between ocean, weather, and climate variability is a pre-requisite for understanding the challenge. The solution approach encompasses a better appreciation of the roof, refined solar energy estimation, heightened heat exchange effectiveness, improved understanding of photovoltaic operation in the Arctic, and integration of thermoelectric with photovoltaic. Adaptation is an essential and immediate remedy that every individual must take part in, understanding that men and women respond to the thermal environment differently. Imagine future buildings made from appetizing materials, closing a sustainable design process with self-sufficiency communities. Would hydrogen become a crucial part of the mitigation?
