Sustainable urban mobility futures
This book provides a unique perspective on urban mobility focusing on past challenges and future trends. The book enables discussions of pathways towards sustainable and people-centred urban mobility building on existing concepts and introducing novel methods and consideration of future research. In particular, the book provides an overview of trends, design methods, and projects combining foresight and agent-based modelling to better integrate active mobility in Mobility-as-a-Service, assess impacts of automated vehicles in Paris, and compare multiple solutions in Cairo. The book provides a range of multidisciplinary concepts and methods that will be invaluable to both researchers in the field and students taking relevant courses. Tjark Gall works on data-driven policymaking for sustainable urban systems and has a PhD from CentraleSupélec (CS). He is member of ISOCARP, AESOP, and Urban AI and Carlo Schmid Fellow at the Climate Change and Disaster Risk Management unit for South Asia at the World Bank. Flore Vallet leads the Anthropolis Chair and is senior researcher at IRT SystemX and CS. She obtained a PhD at the Université de Technologie de Compiègne. She is member of the EcoSD network and the Design Society. Laura Mariana Reyes Madrigal has degrees in architecture, urban planning and mobility management from Mexico and France. She is PhD researcher working on Mobility-as-a-Service and pedestrian mobility at CS. Sebastian Hörl works at IRT SystemX following a master’s from Chalmers and a PhD from ETH Zurich. His interests are replicable use of open data and software and applied transport simulation. Adam F. Abdin is an Assistant Professor of Operations Research at CS. Dr Abdin’s research work focuses on developing advanced decision support models and frameworks for managing complex engineering systems. Tarek Chouaki works on agent-based simulations of mobility systems focussing on mobility-on-demand at IRT SystemX. He obtained a master’s on AI from Sorbonne and a PhD from CS. Jakob Puchinger is professor at EM Normandie and affiliate professor at CS. He holds a doctoral degree from TU Wien and worked for the University of Melbourne and Austrian Institute of Technology. He led the Anthropolis Chair until 2022.
