Computational thinking education in K-12 : artificial intelligence literacy and physical computing
A guide to computational thinking education, with a focus on artificial intelligence literacy and the integration of computing and physical objects. Computing has become an essential part of today's primary and secondary school curricula. In recent years, K–12 computer education has shifted from computer science itself to the broader perspective of computational thinking (CT), which is less about technology than a way of thinking and solving problems—“a fundamental skill for everyone, not just computer scientists,” in the words of Jeanette Wing, author of a foundational article on CT. This volume introduces a variety of approaches to CT in K–12 education, offering a wide range of international perspectives that focus on artificial intelligence (AI) literacy and the integration of computing and physical objects. The book first offers an overview of CT and its importance in K–12 education, covering such topics as the rationale for teaching CT; programming as a general problem-solving skill; and the “phenomenon-based learning” approach. It then addresses the educational implications of the explosion in AI research, discussing, among other things, the importance of teaching children to be conscientious designers and consumers of AI. Finally, the book examines the increasing influence of physical devices in CT education, considering the learning opportunities offered by robotics. Contributors: Harold Abelson, Cynthia Breazeal, Karen Brennan, Michael E. Caspersen, Christian Dindler, Daniella DiPaola, Nardie Fanchamps, Christina Gardner-McCune, Mark Guzdial, Kai Hakkarainen, Fredrik Heintz, Paul Hennissen, H. Ulrich Hoppe, Ole Sejer Iversen, Siu-Cheung Kong, Wai-Ying Kwok, Sven Manske, Jesús Moreno-León, Blakeley H. Payne, Sini Riikonen, Gregorio Robles, Marcos Román-González, Pirita Seitamaa-Hakkarainen, Ju-Ling Shih, Pasi Silander, Lou Slangen, Rachel Charlotte Smith, Marcus Specht, Florence R. Sullivan, David S. Touretzky
Introduction of computational thinking education in K-12 / Siu-Cheung Kong, Harold Abelson, and Wai-Ying Kwok -- Part 1: a multiplicity of computational thinkings -- A case for why: society, school, self / Karen Brennan -- Providing students with computational literacy for learning about everything / Mark Guzdial -- Developing computational thinking skills with multiple models and representations / H. Ulrich Hoppe, and Sven Manske -- Towards a theory (and practice) of multiple computational thinkings / Marcos Roman-Gonzalez, Jesús Moreno-Leon, and Gregorio Robles -- Learning computational thinking in phenomenon-based co-creation projects: perspectives from Finland / Pasi Silander, Sini Riikonen, Pirita Seitamaa-Hakkarinen, and Kai Hakkarainen -- Computational empowerment / Christian Dindler, Ole Sejer Iversen, Michael E.Caspersen, and Rachel Charlotte Smith -- Part II: computational thinking and artificial intelligence literacy in k-12 -- The computational thinking and artificial intelligence duality / Fredrik Heintz -- Artificial intelligence thinking in k-12 / David Touretzky and Christina Gardner-Mccune -- Preparing children to be conscientious consumers and designers of AI technologies / Daniella Dipaola, Blakeley H. Payne, and Cynthia Breazeal -- Part III: computational thinking and physical computing education in k-12 -- Examining the multi-dimensional learning affordances of robotics for computational thinking and science inquiry / Florence R. Sullivan -- Towards a research agenda for developing computational thinking skills by sense-reason-act programming with robots / Nardie Fanchamps, Marcus Specht, Lou Slangen, and Paul Hennissen -- Computational thinking in the interdisciplinary robotic game: the charm of steam / Ju-Ling Shih.
