Understanding Crypto Fundamentals : Value Investing in Cryptoassets and Management of Underlying Risks
Saying that many investors were not convinced by cryptocurrencies in their first decade of existence would be an understatement. Originally, author Thomas Jeegers was one of them. He looked into this new virtual money more than once and, each time, decided not to invest. Like many long-term investors, he was looking for fundamentals. Crypto had none — or so he thought. This book details why his perspective on cryptoassets has shifted – and why yours should, too. Recent developments in this field have turned crypto from a speculative financial innovation to a new asset class, one with a new kind of fundamentals that offer real economic value. One that will change finance and investments. One that may be a trigger defining the fourth industrial revolution, the same way steam, electricity, and the Internet were triggers for the first, second, and third industrial revolutions, respectively. Despite what advocates of the traditional financial establishment like to claim, cryptoassets were by far the best financial investment of the last decade, even risk-adjusted, and could still be so for the coming one. They should not be overlooked, regardless of one’s opinion of them. This book answers the main questions any potential long-term investor in cryptoassets should ask: What are cryptoassets and blockchain technology? Why consider cryptoasset investments? When is a good time to invest? Where should one invest? How should one invest? Which valuation methods are appropriate? Understanding Crypto Fundamentals includes a deep dive into the management of risks specific to cryptoassets, both financial and non-financial, and provides the tools needed for investment success in this new asset class. Upon completing the book, you will have a new perspective on cryptoassets and how you can benefit from them as an investor. Thomas Jeegers is a CFA Charterholder and Financial Risk Manager (FRM), and has earned an MBA from INSEAD as well as multiple blockchain certifications from institutions including INSEAD and Oxford University. He has worked in finance for 10 years and is a frequent speaker at events on blockchain and cryptoassets.
Part I Why Consider Crypto Investments? -- Chapter 1 A Brief history of Money -- Chapter 2 Complementary Currencies -- Chapter 3 Blockchain as a Force for Good -- Chapter 4 Portfolio Management Primer -- Part II What Are Cryptoassets? -- Chapter 5 Birth of a New Asset Class -- Chapter 6 Blockchain Basics -- Chapter 7 Cryptoasset Taxonomies -- Chapter 8 Types of Investments in Cryptoassets -- Part III When Is a Good Time to Invest? -- Chapter 9 Crypto Trends -- Chapter 10 Prime Time -- Part IV Where Should One Invest? -- Chapter 11 Investment Vehicles -- Part V How Should One Invest? -- Chapter 12 Investment Strategies -- Chapter 13 Non-Financial Risk Management -- Chapter 14 Financial Risk Management -- Part VI Which Assets Should One Consider? -- Chapter 15 Assessment Framework -- Chapter 16 Value Investment in Cryptoassets -- Chapter 17 Concluding Remarks -- Part VII Appendices -- Appendix A: Precursors of Cryptoassets -- Appendix B: Bitcoin's Replacement Cost Valuation -- Appendix C: Financial Products Applied to Crypto -- Appendix D: Acronyms and Abbreviations -- Appendix E: References.
