Internet of things and cyber physical systems : security and forensics
"The quantity, diversity, and sophistication of Internet of Things (IoT) items are rapidly increasing, posing significant issues and solutions for forensic science. Such systems are becoming increasingly common in public locations, businesses, universities, residences, and other shared offices, producing enormous amounts of data at rapid speeds in a variety of forms. IoT devices can be used as suspects, digital witnesses, or instruments of crime and cyberattacks, posing new investigation problems, forensic issues, security threats, legal concerns, privacy concerns, and ethical dilemmas. A cyberattack on IoT devices might target the device itself or associated systems, particularly vital infrastructure. This book discusses the advancements in IoT and Cyber-Physical Systems (CPS) Forensics. The first objective is to learn and understand the fundamentals of the Internet of Things Forensics. This objective will answer the question of why and how the IoT has evolved itself as one of the most promising and widely accepted technology across the globe and has widely accepted applications. The second objective is to learn how to use the CPS to answer many computational problems. CPS Forensics is a promising domain and various advancements are there in this field. This book is structured in such a way so that the field of study is relevant to each reader's major or interests. The book's goal is to help each reader to see the relevance of IoT and CPS Forensics to his or her career or interests. This book not only presents numerous case stories from a global perspective, but it also compiles a large amount of literature and research from a database. As a result, this book effectively demonstrates the concerns, difficulties, and trends surrounding the topic while also encouraging readers to think globally. The main goal of this project is to encourage both researchers and practitioners to share and exchange their experiences and recent studies between academia and industry"--
