Advances in carbon capture and utilization
This book focuses on the recent trends in carbon management and up-to-date information on different carbon management strategies that lead to manage increasing concentration of atmospheric carbon dioxide. The growing evidence of climate change resulting from the continued increase of atmospheric carbon dioxide concentration has made it a high profile political–social and trade issue. The mean global average earth temperature rose by 0.6± 2°C during the second half of the century with the rate of 0.17°C/decade. As per GISS data in the year of 2017, it rose 0.9°C (1.62 °F) above the 1951-1980 mean global temperature. Recently World Meteorological Organization analyzes the past record temperature and found the past 10 years were the warmest years about 1.1°C above preindustrial level. Over the past decade, carbon management by various techniques has to come to fore as a way to manage carbon dioxide emissions contributing to climate change. The proposed book addresses the need for an understanding of sustainable carbon dioxide management technologies mainly focused on (a) minimizing carbon dioxide emission from sources; (b) maximizing environmentally sound recuse, reduce and recycling; (c)emerging technology toward carbon dioxide mitigation and d) converting carbon dioxide into valuable products form sustainable use. Other books related to carbon management attempt to cover the carbon capture and sequestration, carbon mineralization, utilization and storage but the topic of CO2 management strategies is not discussed in detail for sustainable development. Furthermore, this book also covers all physical, chemical and biological process for long-term capture, removal and sequestration of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere for sustainable management which is not described in other carbon management books. In order to meet CO2 emissions reduction target, a range of technological approaches, including development of clean fuels and clean coal technologies, adopting cleaner and more energy efficiency and conservation, developing renewable energy and implementing CCS technologies, will also be considered for sustainable future.
