Getting real about inequality : intersectionality in real life (IRL)
"But Aren't Some Groups Actually More Oppressed Than Others?": How and Why Intersectionality Matters / Cherise A. Harris and Stephanie M. McClure -- "A Family is Two Parents, Their Children, and the White Picket Fence": The Impact of Invisible Intersections on How We Talk About "The Family" / Stephanie Medley-Rath -- "School Choice Ensures Kids Get the Best Education": The Realities of Charter and Magnet Schools for Children in the Intersections / Tomeka Davis and Dionne Parris -- "Maybe some people shouldn't be parents": the hidden inequalities of the child welfare system / Cherise A. Harris -- "Why Should We Have to Pay for Anchor Babies and Welfare Queens?": How Political Rhetoric Influences Social Policy Toward Black and Latina Women / Carly Hayden Foster -- "But Aren't the Poor Mostly Inner-City Blacks?": Understanding Poverty from an Intersectional Perspective / James M. Thomas, Paige Overmyer, and Stephanie M. McClure -- "Everyone Gets the Same 24 Hours a Day": An Intersectional Approach to Understanding the Time and Life Lost For Black Men and Boys / David C. Turner III, Uriel Serrano, and Freeden Blume Ouer -- "The Police Are Here to Protect Us": The Role of Race and Gender in the Construction of Law Enforcement / Jennifer Carlson -- "Unwanted Pregnancies are Completely Preventable": Understanding Reproductive Freedom in the Context of the Intersections / Gerlyn Murrell -- ]"Since We All Breathe the Same Air, The Environment Affects Us All in the Same Way": An Intersectional View of the Impact of Environmental Toxins / Julia A. Flagg -- "Lizzo Should Really Be Embarrassed to Show that Much of Her Body": Applying an Intersectional Lens to the Scrutiny of Black Women's Bodies / Sabrina Strings -- "If Only He Looked More Like a Woman": How the Intersections Affect the Experiences of and Attitudes Toward Transgender People / Kylan Mattias de Vries and Carey Jean Sojka -- "Muslim Women Covering Themselves is Oppressive": Hijabs, Burkas, and Niquabs Through an Intersectional Lens / Afshan Jafar -- "I keep 'em around just in case": Understanding Gun Ownership in the U.S. from an Intersectional Perspective / Levi Gahman -- "I'm a Feminist, So That Means I Am for ALL Women": The Role of Intersectionality in "Sisterhood" / Andrea N. Baldwin -- "Why is There a Black Twitter and a Gay Twitter?" The Role Social Media Play in Making Categories of Difference Visible /  -- "I Just Think Asian Men Aren't Sexy!": Race, Class, Gender, Sexuality, and the Devaluing of Asian Men / Karen Wu -- "When I Think of Disability I Think of a White Guy in a Wheelchair": The Social Construction of Disability and its Intersections with Race, Class, Gender, and Sexuality / Jennifer Domino Rudolph -- "Why Do White Women Vote Against Their Own Interests?": Unpacking Race, Gender, and Sexuality in the 2016 Presidential Election / Dara Z. Strolovitch, Janelle S. Wong, and Andrew Proctor -- "Things will get better over time. Besides, what can I do?": Coalition-Building Across Categories of Difference / Cherise A. Harris, Andrea N. Baldwin, and Stephanie M. McClure
