The Routledge companion to intersectionalities
Introduction: accompanying intersectionality / Jennifer C. Nash and Samantha Pinto -- Retracing intersectional genealogies. An ethics of uncare : coalition politics after the turn of the century / Rebecca Wanzo -- The Memphis school / Ivy Ken and Allison Suppan Helmuth -- Not your average counter-origin story : intersectionality, Ida B. Wells, and Southern horrors / Regis Fox -- Ungendering intersectionality and reproductive justice : returning to Hortense Spillers's "Mama's baby, papa's maybe" / Alys Eve Weinbaum -- Tool optimism : a history of the 1979 Second Sex conference and the afterlives of Audre Lorde / Rachel Corbman -- Black feminism and the violence of the word / James Bliss -- Parable of the advocate : speculative humanisms in Patricia J. Williams's The alchemy of race and rights / Justin L. Mann -- Reading at the nexus of neglect and fetishization : the "occult" of intersectionality / Vivian M. May -- Intersectional methods and (inter)disciplinarity. Beyond intersectional identities : ten intersectional structural competencies for critical health equity research / Lisa Bowleg -- Waves and riptides : mapping intersectionality's currents in feminist psychology / Patrick R. Grzanka and Elizabeth R. Cole -- Narratives in context : locating racism and sexism in black women's health experiences / Kayonne Christy, Dominique Adams-Santos, and Celeste Watkins-Hayes -- System-building, political orders, and indigenous feminist diplomacies / Mark Rifkin -- Intersectionality and ethnography : sexual violence and racial subordination in the courts / Sameena Mulla -- Journeys of intersectionality : contingency and collision / Rita Kaur Dhamoon -- Who's afraid of identity? Intersectionality and the struggle for, against, and beyond identity / Ashley Bohrer -- Networks of relationalities through the lens of material culture / Minoo Moallem -- Intersectionality's travels. Revisiting a politics of location with and without intersectionality / Mary E. John -- The circulation of intersectionality in China / Lin Sun -- Loving critique : on intersectionality and ambiguity in North Africa and West Asia / Maie Panaga and Sara Salem -- Exploring connections between the street and the classroom in moving through feminist impasses / Meena Gopal and Sangita Thosar -- From travel to arrival : mapping intersectionality's landings in the Global South / Srila Roy --
