Smart health systems : emerging trends
Smart Health-An Introduction -- Technologies for Smart Health -- Telehealth -- Algorithms and Software for Smart Health -- Scalable Smart Health Systems -- Devices, Systems and Infrastructure for Smart Health -- Cyber Physical System for Healthcare -- Big Data Analytics and Cognitive Computing for Smart Health System -- Values and Risks of Smart Health -- Challenges/ Opportunities and Future Trends in Smart Health.
The upcoming trends in healthcare are intended towards improving the overall quality of life. In the past, management of health issues were limited to clinics and hospitals and managing patients data and analyzing it. This procedure was difficult and time consuming. A great effort was also needed in diagnosing the cause and type of disease, but this all has changed now. As advancement in research and technologies, a positive impact on healthcare is seen. This book assesses the need and era of smart healthcare and delivers content relevant to current age and time. It describes the trend, usage and practicality of IWMDs i.e. Wearable Medical Device or Sensors (WMSs) and Implantable Medical Devices (IMDs) and how they enhance the awareness of daily healthcare. It establishes a relation and conjunction of daily healthcare monitoring with clinical healthcare. A healthcare system is called smart when there is an ability to make decisions, which comes from data analytics. Smart healthcare systems possess capability of data analytics and IoT based services which can be implemented on smart phones using cloud technology. This book discusses various research trends and technologies related to innovations and advancements for smart healthcare systems. It also elaborates challenges, scope upcoming techniques, devices and future directions for smart healthcare systems. The proposed book would in particular benefit researchers interested in interdisciplinary sciences, It would also be of value to faculty, research communities, and researchers from diverse disciplines who aspire to create new and innovative research initiatives
