Materials science and engineering in food product development
"Food materials science is a discipline focusing on the development, characterization, processing and engineering of materials used in food. Although it has practical significance in food industry, it is an emerging area in the larger field of food science and little scholarly works are available in this field. Among those available works, most of them only focus on the characterization and properties of food materials per se. Efforts paid to explore how related advances can be translated into the development and improvement of a functional food product are almost absent. The objective of this book is to fill this gap by exploring and illustrating the roles played by materials science and engineering in the process of food production, particularly food microencapsulation and food packaging. This book consists of four sections. Section I presents major concepts related to materials properties in food science. An overview of different types of materials used in food applications will be provided. Concepts of bulk rheology and interfacial rheology in food emulsions will also be presented. This section lays a theoretical foundation for subsequent sections in this book. In Section II, detailed discussions about the design and use of lipid-based and polymer-based materials in enrichment and protection of food components will be provided. Apart from chemical means, various engineering techniques (including 3D printing and electrospinning) can be applied to manipulate the properties of food materials or those used for food microencapsulation. Some of the major engineering techniques relevant to the process of food production will be discussed in Section III. The last section of this book will focus mainly on the design, characterization and use of materials for food packaging. Various determinants of the quality and safety of food packaging, as well as concepts for the design of food packages, will be covered"--
