Exploring the Power of ChatGPT : Applications, Techniques, and Implications
Learn how to use the large-scale natural language processing model developed by OpenAI: ChatGPT. This book explains how ChatGPT uses machine learning to autonomously generate text based on user input and explores the significant implications for human communication and interaction. Author Eric Sarrion examines various aspects of ChatGPT, including its internal workings, use in computer projects, and impact on employment and society. He also addresses long-term perspectives for ChatGPT, including possible future advancements, adoption challenges, and considerations for ethical and responsible use. The book starts with an introduction to ChatGPT covering its versions, application areas, how it works with neural networks, NLP, and its advantages and limitations. Next, you'll be introduced to applications and training development projects using ChatGPT, as well as best practices for it. You'll then explore the ethical implications of ChatGPT, such as potential biases and risks, regulations, and standards. This is followed by a discussion of future prospects for ChatGPT. The book concludes with practical use case examples, such as text content creation, software programming, and innovation and creativity. This essential book summarizes what may be one of the most significant developments in artificial intelligence in recent history and provides useful insights for researchers, policymakers, and anyone interested in the future of technology. You will: Understand the basics of deep learning and text generation using language models such as ChatGPT Prepare data and train a language model to generate text Use ChatGPT for various applications such as marketing text generation or answering questions Understand the use of ChatGPT through the OpenAI API and how to optimize model performance.
1 - What is ChatGPT? -- 2 - How Does ChatGPT Work? -- 3 - Applications of ChatGPT -- 4 - ChatGPT Training -- 5 - Using ChatGPT in Development Projects -- 6 - Best Practices for using ChatGPT -- 7 - Potential Biases and Risks of ChatGPT -- 8 - The Implications of ChatGPT for Employment and Society -- 9 - Regulations and Standards for using ChatGPT -- 10 - Future Developments of ChatGPT -- 11 - The Long-term Outlook for ChatGPT -- 12 - Using ChatGPT for Text Content Creation for Businesses -- 13 - Using ChatGPT for Text Translation -- 14 - Using ChatGPT to Learn a Language -- 15 - Using ChatGPT for Recruitment in Businesses -- 16 - Using ChatGPT for Code Generation in Computer Programs -- 17 - Using ChatGPT for artistic content creation -- 18 - Using ChatGPT for Innovation and Creativity -- 19 - Conclusion.
