Routledge handbook of resilient thermal comfort
The shapes of comfort and resilience / Fergus Nicol -- Rethinking resilient thermal comfort within the context of human-building resilience / Marcel Schweiker -- Why occupants need a role in building operation : a framework for resilient design / Lisa Heschong and Julia Day -- The impact of future UK heatwave to the thermal resilience in office and residential buildings -- a comparison / Asif Din and Hala El Khorazaty -- Resilient design in extreme climates : 5-steps overheating assessment method for naturally ventilated buildings / Daniel Zepeda-Rivas, Jorge Rodríguez-Álvarez and José Roberto García-Chávez -- Summertime indoor temperatures and thermal comfort in nursing care homes in London / Rajat Gupta and Alastair Howard -- Assessing human resilience : a study of thermal comfort, wellbeing and health of older people / Terence Williamson, Veronica Soebarto, Helen Bennetts, Larissa Arakawa Martins, Dino Pisaniello, Alana Hansen, Renuka Visvanathan, Andrew Carre and Joost van Hoof -- Do children feel warmer than adults? Overheating prevention in schools in the face of climate change / Marije te Kulve, Runa T. Hellwig, Froukje van Dijken and Atze Boerstra -- Causes and effects of partial cooling during sleep / Noriko Umemiya and Yuhan Chen -- Overheating and passive cooling strategies in low-income residential buildings in Abuja, Nigeria / Michael U. Adaji, Timothy O. Adekunle and Richard Watkins -- The devolution of thermal resilience in residential houses in Khartoum / Huda Z.T. Elsherif, Marialena Nikolopoulou and Henrik Schoenefeldt -- Design of adaptive opportunities for people in buildings / Runa T. Hellwig, Despoina Teli, Marcel Schweiker, Joon-Ho Choi, M.C. Jeffrey Lee, Rodrigo Mora, Rajan Rawal, Zhaojun Wang and Farah Al-Atrash -- Resiliency lessons of traditional living in nomadic yurts / Dolaana Khovalyg -- Passive cooling strategies for low carbon architecture / Pablo La Roche -- Passive design for extreme heat : the Austrian pavilion at EXPO 2020 in Dubai / Georgios Gourlis and Peter Holzer -- Studying outdoor thermal comfort and resilience in an urban design perspective : a case study in Ipoh old town and new town, Malaysia / Mei-Yee Teoh, Michihiko Shinozaki, Kei Saito and Ismail Said -- Adaptive approaches to enhancing resilient thermal comfort in Japanese offices / Hom B. Rijal, Michael A. Humphreys and J. Fergus Nicol -- Thermal comfort and occupant disposition in mixed-mode offices in a Brazilian subtropical climate / Ricardo Forgiarini Rupp, Jørn Toftum and Enedir Ghisi -- Tools and rules for behavioural agency in buildings : minimising energy use while maintaining comfort / Julia K. Day -- Mixed mode is better than air conditioned offices for resilient comfort : adaptive behaviour and visual thermal landscaping / Sally Shahzad and Hom B. Rijal -- Effects of light and ambient temperature on visual and thermal appraisals / Maaike Kompier, Karin Smolders and Yvonne de Kort -- Reaching thermal comfort zone limits for resilient building operation : a winter case study for offices / Dolaana Khovalyg, Verena M. Barthelmes and Arnab Chatterjee -- Methodology of IEQ assessment in energy efficient buildings / Karel Kabele, Zuzana Veverková and Miroslav Urban -- Flexible future comfort / Sanober Hassan Khattak, Andrew Wright and Sukumar Natarajan -- Sight beyond reach : dynamic life cycle assessment to support resilient retrofit decisionmaking in a changing climate / Vanessa Gomes, Marcella R.M. Saade, Leticia O. Neves, Iris Loche, Lizzie M. Pulgrossi and Maristela G. Silva -- Indoor environmental quality, energy-efficiency and thermal comfort in the retrofitting of housing : a literature review / Marco Ortiz and Philomena M. Bluyssen -- Double skin buildings and resilience for commercial buildings / Eusébio Conceição, João Gomes, Ma Inês Conceição, Ma Manuela Lúcio and Hazim Awbi -- Cooling with thermally activated, radiative surfaces : resilient answers to upcoming cooling needs, extending the application range of adaptive comfort / Peter Holzer and David Stuckey -- Rethinking radiant comfort / Eric Teitelbaum and Forrest Meggers -- Towards resilient cooling possibilities for Brazilians' hot and humid climates : exploring the national thermal comfort database / Carolina Buonocore, Renata De Vecchi, Greici Ramos, Maira Andre, Christhina Candido and Roberto Lamberts -- Teaching comfort : critical approaches, digital interventions and contemporary choices / Ola Uduku, B.K. Satish, Gillian Treacy and Yiqianq Zhao -- How airborne transmission of SARS-CoV-2 confirmed the need for new ways of proper ventilation / Philomena M. Bluyssen -- COVID-19 : trust, windows and the psychology of resilience / Susan Roaf -- Resilient comfort standards / Susan Roaf and Fergus Nicol.
