Post-Western histories of architecture
"This book seeks to provide an alternative post-Western perspective to the history of contemporary architecture. It puts forward detailed critical analyses of various areas of the world, including Europe, Latin America, Africa, China, Australia, India and Japan, where particular movements of architecture have developed as active 'political acts'. The authors focus on a broad spectrum of countries, architectures and architects that have developed a design approach closely linked to the building context. The concept of context is broad and includes various economic, social, cultural, political and natural aspects. In all cases, the architects selected in this book have chosen to view context as an opportunity. However, each architect has considered certain specific aspects of context: some have been very attentive to the social context, others to material aspects or typological issues, and still others to aspects related to political visions or economic factors. The analysis critically highlights interesting, creative and respectful design approaches towards local conditions, such as sustainability in Nordic Europe, climate-conscious design in Africa, and the 'bottom-up' sensitivity of India. The book's main aim is to retrace, through both theoretical arguments and case studies, the debate that focuses on politics and the environment. Thanks to its valuable examples, this book strives to make a conscious contribution to establishing a bulwark against the current 'flattening-out' processes that architecture is experiencing. This book will be of relevance to researchers, teachers, and students interested in the history of architecture, architecture & planning, and postcolonial studies"--
Architecture as a 'Political Act' -- A Dialogue with Tradition: the Case of Italy -- Principles of North-European Sustainability -- The Construction of the Indian Identity -- The Latin American Political Context and its Architecture -- Using the African Context -- 'Indirect' Context: the Case of Japan -- China and the Re-Invention of Tradition -- Re-embracing the Aboriginal Model: Australia -- Context as an Opportunity. A Way of Viewing Architecture.
