Smart and Sustainable Planning for Cities and Regions : Results of SSPCR 2022
This open access book includes a selection of innovative contributions presented at the 4th international conference “Smart and Sustainable Planning for Cities and Regions 2022”, held in Bolzano, Italy in July 2022. Featuring 10 papers by academics and consultants, strongly rooted in practical experiences and international projects, it discusses current ground-breaking research in innovative and sustainable planning for cities, with a focus on the environmental, economic, and social challenges associated with the global sustainability transition and energy systems integration. The contributions are illustrative of the richness of the issues discussed and the breadth of the emerging themes, including innovative business models for building and infrastructure at district level, integrated sustainability assessment schemes for Positive Energy Districts, a material flow accounting model for regional metabolism, energy communities as a lever to promote historical and landscape values, optimized and electrified last-mile logistics, multi-criteria decision analysis tools to redefine center/periphery relationships, a framework for socio-spatial analysis related to social practices, design principles and communication technologies improving both indoor and outdoor public spaces, augmented nature-based solution coupling the green elements with the latest technologies to deliver healthier and more appealing cities.
1.Current business model practices in Energy Master Planning for regions, cities and districts. Matthias Haase and Thaleia Konstantinou -- 2.Multicriteria spatial economic decision support systems to support Positive Energy District: a literature review. Adriano Bisello, Marta Bottero, Marco Volpatti, Tiziana Binda -- 3.A holistic sustainability evaluation of Positive Energy Districts - Planetary boundaries framing the transformation of districts. Matthias Haase and Daniela Baer -- 4.Regional metabolism: A material and product flow accounting model for Trentino, Italy. Joana Bastos and Leonardo Rosado -- 5.Energy communities: the opportunity for an energy transition characterized by a return to the territory. Monica Bolognesi -- 6.Investment in greening last-mile logistics: a case study. Franco Corti and Alessandro Nava -- 7.Linking urban railways, people and places: A spatial multicriteria decision analysis in the city of Catania. Filippo Accordino, Salvatore Eugenio Pappalardo, Daniele Codato, Francesca Peroni, and Massimo De Marchi -- 8.Commoning practices along streetscapes. Elisa Ravazzoli -- 9.New technologies and public spaces: supporting sustainable urban policies. Marichela Sepe -- 10.Augmented nature-based solutions, a possible taxonomy of technologies in and for urban greening strategies. Israa Mahmoud, Eugenio Morello, Adriano Bisello and Dionysia Kolokotsa.
