Caribbean children's literature / edited by Betsy Nies and Melissa García Vega ; Volume 2: Critical approaches
"Caribbean Children's Literature, Volume 2: Critical Approaches offers analyses of the works of writers of the Anglophone Caribbean and its diaspora—or, except for one chapter on Francophone Caribbean children’s literature, those who write in English. The volume addresses the four language regions, early children’s literature of conquest—in particular, the US colonization of Puerto Rico—and the fine line between children’s and adult literature. It explores multiple young adult genres, probing the nuances and difficulties of historical fiction and the anticolonial impulses of contemporary speculative fiction. Additionally, the volume offers an overview of the literature of disaster and recovery, significant for readers living in a region besieged by earthquakes, hurricanes, and flooding. In this anthology and its companion anthology, international and regional scholars provide coverage of both areas, offering in-depth explorations of picture books, middle-grade, and young adult stories. The volumes examine the literary histories of both children’s and young adult literature according to language region, its use (or lack thereof) in schools, and its place in the field of publishing. Taken together, the essays expand our understanding of Caribbean literature for young people"-- back cover
Politicizing the picture book --The picture book is political: English-language Caribbean children's and young adult literature as littérature engagée / Summer Edward. - History's troubled waters --Constructing Puerto Rico: Marian M. George's A Little Journey to Puerto Rico and creative voyeurism / Teófilo Espada-Brignoni. - "What will I be called in the future?" Subverting expectations of Taíno tragedy in Edwidge Danticat's Anacaona: Golden Flower / Michael C. Reyes. - When will "we" be free? Interrogating US imperialism in Julia Alvarez's young adult novel Before We Were Free / Amanda Eaton McMenamin. - Speculative fiction: transformations in the genre --Vodou illuminations, diaspora literacy, and racial violence in Ibi Zoboi's young adult novel American Street / Betsy Nies. - Growing up speculative: Comics, spiders, and child subjectivities in Rabindranath Maharaj's The Amazing Absorbing Boy and Imam Baksh's Children of the Spider / Jarrel De Matas. - Environmental disasters and ecological readings --Caribbean disaster narratives: Hurricanes and Caribbean children's literature / Dannabang Kuwabong. - Ecopedagogy and aesthetics in Caribbean children's literature / Melissa García Vega. - Transformations of gendered violence --"Do they dream? Do they cry?" Images of women in children's literature by Francophone Caribbean women writers / Pauline Franchini
