Solid-state chemistry : a modern approach
"Solid-state reactions have been growing in importance in the preparation of solids, crystal growth, and single crystal of elements. In this new volume, the author discusses in depth recent advances in solid-state chemistry, the latest techniques of characterization of solids, and several new dimensions of solid-state problems. Solid-state reactions, their kinetics, phase transitions, and magnetic properties are discussed in detail, along with the electrical properties, such as semiconductors, metals, and insulators, with suitable examples and proper explanations. Dielectric, piezoelectric, and ferroelectric properties of solids have been taken into account as well as there is no doubt that solid surfaces act as catalyst and adsorbent. Different theories of catalysis and adsorption isotherms are covered, and the author includes several experimental findings as well. And of course, preparation of new solids by taking advantage of recent experimental techniques have also been included in this volume. This volume provides a complete description of solid-state reactions, electrical conductivity, characterization of solids, organic solids, and intercalation between layers of solid in a very simple and lucid manner. The band theories of metals, semiconductors, and insulators are covered. In characterization of solids, TGA, DTA, DSC, FTIR and PXRD techniques have been described in the best possible way to make the readers understand in a clear manner. Preparation and properties of organic solids have been explained in the book. Dielectric properties, photovoltaic effects, piezo electricity, ferroelectricity, and antiferroelectricity have been dealt with, giving relatable examples. A number of excitation energy levels giving rise to luminescence and photoluminescence have been explained under the topic optical processes illustrated by suitable examples and figures. Diamagnetic, paramagnetic, and ferromagnetic behavior of solids has also been explained in the book under the topic magnetic properties"--
