Advances in plant nitrogen metabolism
"Advances in Plant Nitrogen Metabolism is thoughtful, provocative, and up-to-date volume that presents important physiological, biochemical, and molecular perspectives of the nitrogen metabolism in plants and regulatory networks underlying it. The anticipated book is an attempt to team up with global leading research experts working in the field of plant nitrogen metabolism to compile an up-to-date and wide-ranging volume. The main purpose of this book is to present information on the most recent developments including the different modern approaches, and methodologies, that are being currently employed in the field of plant nitrogen metabolism. We trust that this comprehensive volume will familiarize the readers with the detailed mechanisms of nitrogen metabolism and its regulation and the current trends in this field of study. The book offers comprehensive coverage of the most essential topics, including: Role of Nitrogen and its assimilation in plants. Recycling and Remobilization of Nitrogen during senescence. Role of Phytohormones in Nitrogen Metabolism. Biological nitrogen fixation Nitrogen biofertilizers: Role in sustainable agriculture. Effect of stress on Plant Nitrogen Metabolism. Reactive nitrogen species (RNS) in plants. Nitrogen Toxicity in Plants, Symptoms and Safeguards Nitrogen metabolism enzymes: structure, role and regulation. Regulatory RNAs and their role in Nitrogen metabolism of diazotrophs Being a pivotal contribution to the field, this volume is an invaluable and up-to-date foundation for plant physiologists, plant biochemists, geneticists, molecular biologists, agronomists, environmental researchers, and students of plant science. The book can also be used for the coursework of research and master's students"--
1. --Introduction to plant nitrogen metabolism --2. --Nitrogen: a key macronutrient for the plant world --3. --Nitrogen deficiency in plants --4. --Nitrogen assimilation in plants --5. --Assimilation of nitrates in plants --6. --Factors affecting nitrogen uptake transport and assimilation --7. --Role of nitrogen in photosynthesis --8. --Recycling and remobilization of nitrogen during senescence --9. --Role of phytohormones in nitrogen metabolism --10. --Diazotrophs and plant interactions: physiology and biochemical aspects --11. --Biological nitrogen fixation: an overview --12. --Nitrogenase enzyme complex: functions, regulation and biotechnological applications --13. --Nod, nif, and fix genes --14. --Nitrogen biofertilizers: role in sustainable agriculture --15. --Effect of biotic stresses on plant nitrogen metabolism --16. --Salt stress and nitrogen metabolism in plants --17. --Reactive nitrogen species in plants --18. --Nitrogen toxicity in plants, symptoms, and safeguards --19. --Nitrogen metabolism enzymes: structure, role and regulation --20. --Regulatory RNAs and their role in nitrogen metabolism. of diazotrophs.
