Introduction to chaos, fractals and dynamical systems
"This book offers a fun and enriching introduction to chaos theory, fractals and dynamical systems, and on the applications of fractals to computer generated graphics and image compression. Introduction to Chaos, Fractals and Dynamical Systems particularly focuses on natural and human phenomenon that can be modeled as fractals, using simple examples to explain the theory of chaos and how it affects all of us. Then, using straightforward mathematic and intuitive descriptions, computer generated graphics and photographs of natural scenes are used to illustrate the beauty of fractals and their importance in our world. Finally, the concept of Dynamical Systems, that is, time-dependent systems, the foundation of Chaos and Fractal, is introduced. Everyday examples are again used to illustrate concepts, and the importance of understanding how these vital systems affect our lives. Throughout the fascinating history of the evolution of chaos theory, fractals and dynamical systems is presented, along with brief introductions to the scientists, mathematicians and engineers who created this knowledge. Introduction to Chaos, Fractals and Dynamical Systems contains ample mathematical definitions, representations, discussions and exercises, so that this book can be used as primary or secondary source in home schooling environments. The book is suitable for homeschooling as a focused course on the subject matter or as a classroom supplement for a variety of courses at the late junior high or early high-school level. For example, in addition to a standalone course on Chaos, Fractals and Dynamical Systems (or similar title), this book could be used with the following courses: Precalculus Geometry Computer programming (e.g. Rust, C, C++, Python, Java, Pascal) Computer graphics The text can also be used in conjunction with mathematics courses for undergraduates for non-science majors. The book can also be used for informal and lively family study and discussion. For each chapter, exercises and things to do are included. These activities range from simple computational tasks to more elaborate computer projects, related activities, biographical research and writing assignments"--
