Introduction to Infrared and Electro-Optical Systems
This newly revised and updated edition offers a current and complete introduction to the analysis and design of Electro-Optical (EO) imaging systems. The Third Edition provides numerous updates and several new chapters including those covering Pilotage, Infrared Search and Track, and Simplified Target Acquisition Model. The principles and components of the Linear Shift-Invariant (LSI) infrared and electro-optical systems are detailed in full and help you to combine this approach with calculus and domain transformations to achieve a successful imaging system analysis. Ultimately, the steps described in this book lead to results in quantitative characterizations of performance metrics such as modulation transfer functions, minimum resolvable temperature difference, minimum resolvable contrast, and probability of object discrimination. The book includes an introduction to two-dimensional functions and mathematics which can be used to describe image transfer characteristics and imaging system components. You also learn diffraction concepts of coherent and incoherent imaging systems which show you the fundamental limits of their performance. By using the evaluation procedures contained in this desktop reference, you become capable of predicting both sensor test and field performance and quantifying the effects of component variations. The book contains over 800 time-saving equations and includes numerous analyses and designs throughout. It also includes a reference link to special website prepared by the authors that augments the book in the classroom and serves as an additional resource for practicing engineers. With its comprehensive coverage and practical approach, this is a strong resource for engineers needing a bench reference for sensor and basic scenario performance calculations. Numerous analyses and designs are given throughout the text. It is also an excellent text for upper-level students with an interest in electronic imaging systems
