The future of liveable cities
This book explores the concept of livable cities, where people enjoy living and being, and examines indicators of citizens' well-being in relation to the urban environment. It is authored by experts from diverse disciplines, providing a citizen-centered perspective on urban well-being in sustainable, environmentally friendly, and climate-neutral (or -positive) cities. The contributions focus on the human and social aspects of cities, developing operational models and frameworks for circular cities, smart resource utilization, and examining contextual factors such as environmental and neighborhood quality, energy transition, climate neutrality, and recycling as factors that influence the well-being of "homo urbanus.” The chapters approach these topics from various analytical perspectives, including conceptual/theoretical, methodological/modeling, policy/planning, and evidence-based case studies. This book will be of interest to scholars in regional and spatial science, urban geography, economics, and related fields, as well as those interested in urban well-being.
Chapter 1. Challenges for a Liveable Urban World (Luigi Fusco Girard) -- Part I. Spotlights on Liveable Cities -- Chapter 2. Livable Cities: A Conceptual Modelling Approach (Dani Broitman) -- Chapter 3. Defining Indicator Systems for Liveable Cities (Rudolf Giffinger) -- Chapter 4. Three Conditions for Liveable Cities: Geographical Inclusion, Carbon Neutrality and Transport Innovation (Nicos Komninos) -- Chapter 5. ICT Solutions for Smart Urban Mobility: A Review (Luca Zamparini) -- Chapter 6. Adapting Historic Cities Towards the Circular Economy: Technologies and Materials for Circular Adaptive Reuse of Historic Buildings (Mariarosaria Angrisano) -- Part II. Urban Liveability Planning -- Chapter 7. Green Liveable Urban Futures: the Integration of Nature-Based Solutions into Planning as a Strategy for Regreening the Post-Oil City (Steffen Lehmann) -- Chapter 8. The Impact of Spatially Egalitarian Functional Urban Areas. The Case of Lisbon Metropolitan Region (Tomaz Ponce Dentinho) -- Chapter 9. Challenges in Building More Liveable Cities in Post-Socialist European Countries: from "Cities4all" to "Cities4everyone" (Alexandru Bănică) -- Chapter 10. A Tale of Two Big Cities Struggling for their Agriculture Conflict and Oppositions around Land Farming in the Greater São Paulo and Paris Regions (Brenno Fonseca) -- Part III. Urban Quality of Life Challenges -- Chapter 11. After COVID: A Circular Recovery in Western European Cities (Joanna Williams) -- Chapter 12. Covid-19 City Perspective: The Impacts on the Real Estate Dynamics (Pasquale De Toro) -- Chapter 13. Actors of Urban Health at World and Continental Scales: An Intercontinental Comparison of Urban Health Actions Using Topic Modeling on a Large Worldwide Web Mining (2000-2021) (Céline Rozenblat) -- Chapter 14. Same Bed, Different Dreams? Socioeconomic Strata and Differences in Liveability Perception in European Cities (Pui-Hang Wong).
