Theorization of Ex-Criminal Tribes : A Participatory Approach
This book is based on intense research work and consultation conducted over a long period, presents circumstances under which certain tribes in Andhra Pradesh are placed to keep on living through criminal activities. It explains why particular tribes become crime-prone and why and how they have been branded and notified as criminal tribes. It deals with the structure of the village criminal-tribe settlements and approaches the problem of tribal criminology from a structural perspective. It studies the criminal behaviour that could be related to social situations that prevail in the two ex-criminal settlements in Andhra Pradesh and examines the structure and organization of this group as well as changes that have been taking place as far as their criminal activities are concerned. The analysis in this book focuses on the sociological and anthropological circumstances under which the criminal tribes become criminals and continued to be called as criminals although most of them as a group have since stopped criminal activities. Professor Dr. Y. C. Simhadri had served Universities (both Central and State Universities) as Vice-Chancellor for Five terms. He has also served University Grans Commission (UGC) as a Member. He has served Association of Indian Universities (AIU) as President. AIU President is treated on par with Chairman, UGC. Professor Simhadri who retired as a Professor of Sociology and Criminology from Andhra University has two earned higher doctorates (D.Litt and LLD) to his credit apart from his Masters and PhD degrees from the US. He has other post-doctoral degrees from the UK, Bulgaria, Germany and Japan. While his academic peers in the US dubbed him as “Walking library in Criminology” the President of India dubbed him as “Vice-Chancellor of all Vice-Chancellors”. Professor Sudhakar Yedla, is a Professor of Environment and served as a Vice-Chancellor of a state University in Andhra Pradesh.
Chapter 1: Foundations of Denotifying Tribes – An Exploratory Introduction -- Chapter 2: Characterization and Making of Denotified Tribes – A Review -- Chapter 3: Social and Historical Profile of the Larger Study Area – The State of Andhra Pradesh -- Chapter 4: Socio-Economic and Criminal Background of the Study Regions -- Chapter 5: Yerukulas - Organization and Structure of A Dominant Denotified Tribe in Andhra Pradesh, India -- Chapter 6: Two Tribal Settlements Under Study: A Socio-Historical Account -- Chapter 7: Demystifying Venkumamba Village -- Chapter 8: Irwin Settlement: An Analysis -- Chapter 9: Towards a Theory of Ex-criminal Tribes (Denotified Tribes) -- Chapter 10: Summary and Conclusions.
