Hollywood modern : houses of the stars
On the intersection of Hollywood and Modern / by Michael Stern -- Ramon Novarro House, 1928 -- Dolores del Rio House, 1930 -- Anna Sten & Eugene Frenke House, 1934 -- Josef von Sternberg House, 1935 -- Frank Sinatra House, 1946 -- Lucille Ball & Desi Arnaz House, 1954 -- Gary Cooper House, 1955 -- Groucho Marx House, 1956 -- Marilyn Monroe & Arthur Miller House, 1957 -- Charlton Heston House, 1959 -- Tina Turner House, 1961, 1963 -- Lew Wasserman House, 1960 -- Elvis Presley Honeymoon House, 1960 -- Steve McQueen House, 1964 -- Laurence Harvey House, 1963 -- William Holden House, 1968 -- Johnny Carson House, 1984 -- Faye Dunaway Apartment, 1969 -- Kelly Lynch & Mitch Glazer House, 1950 -- Jerry Weintraub House, 2004 -- Leonardo DiCaprio/Dinah Shore House, 1964 -- Randolph Duke House, 2004 -- Bryan Lourd House, 1950 -- Dolores & Bob Hope House, 1969-1979.
"This book looks at the intersection of celebrity and design, through the case of 25 houses designed by great architects for their informed, trend-setting, and extremely famous clients, in Southern California. Hollywood Modern spans the modern era, from moderne homes of the 1930s, through mid-century modern designs, to the present day. Hollywood Modern touches on the many moods of modernism. These houses edit, rearrange and direct our point of view much like the carefully composed version of reality we see in motion pictures. These different styles co-exist as modernism and stand in distinct contrast to the Mediterranean villas and Spanish Colonial manses of early Hollywood."--Provided by publisher
"Hollywood Modern explores the intersection of celebrity and high design, through the case of twenty-four houses designed by great architects for their informed, trend-setting, and extremely famous clients, in Southern California. Included are gorgeous photos of the houses as well as rarely seen informal portraits of the stars and wonderfully detailed texts that tell the story of these members of the glitterati, touching on film, fashion. architecture, and the everyday lives of legends. Hollywood Modern spans the modern era, from moderne homes of the 1920s, through mid-century modern designs, to the present day. This book touches on the many moods of modernism. From Ed Niles' Johnny Carson House in Malibu, which creates a ficus tree forest that extends from the garden directly into the house, to the machine-age austerity of Richard Neutra's von Sternberg House (later owned by The Fountainhead author Ayn Rand), to A. Quincy Jones' crisply, elegantly ultramodern Gary Cooper House in Holmby Hills. These houses edit, rearrange and direct our point of view much like the carefully composed version of reality we see in motion pictures--and the public relations personae of the stars. These different styles co-exist as modernism and stand in distinct contrast to the Mediterranean villas and Spanish Colonial manses of early Hollywood. The book features beautiful, high-glamour photographs of the celebrities, including Marilyn Monroe, Steve McQueen, Elvis Presley, and Faye Dunaway (often by celebrated photographers, such as Richard Avedon, Slim Aarons, and Edward Weston), as well as stunning photographs of the architecture (by Julius Shulman, Ezra Stoller, Tim Street-Porter, and others). In addition to the glamour shots of both the stars and the architecture, personal, un-posed photographs of the individuals, beyond the spotlight (from private and family collections), relaxing in their modern homes, are included. Each chapter includes a brief biography of the celebrity whose home is featured, and an explanation and direct quotes. when available, about the celebrity's relationship with modernism, and informative text about the architect and the architecture."--Jacket
