Blockchain technology for IoT and wireless communications
"Smart communications are the concept in which smart appliances and devices are used and they are integrated into an application that runs in a smart hand-held device. The residents of a smart home can have complete control over their home's electronic gadgets using wireless communications from remote place. Thus, it can help people control gadgets in the home/office and often same time and effort besides providing the required convenience. The problem with security systems associated with smart devices is that, they may be broken when there are loopholes or human mistakes. For any reason, when security credentials are lost, the security is lost. This is because mart technology is made up of plenty of devices that are integrated with IoT technology and the cloud. In such an environment, there might be many security issues as mentioned earlier in this document. Blockchain is a promising technology that operates in a decentralized environment to protect devices and the data collected by devices from security and privacy issues by using wireless communication technology. In other words, the blockchain-enabled IoT can achieve end-to-end security. Blockchain technology is used in wireless sensor/communication networks for the estimation of house data prediction and civil structures. IoT integrated innovative applications like smart homes throw security and privacy challenges. Out of that few are, scalability is the main problem as the current centralized IoT platforms have message routing mechanisms that create a bottleneck in scaling up too many devices used in IoT. There is a security problem as many devices are participating in generating data and such setup may be subjected to Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attacks. Lack of data standards is another cause of concern as it leads to challenges and interoperability problems. Blockchain technology for IoT and wireless communications offers a promising solution to smart devices. The technologies can provide end-to-end security and overcome the problems aforementioned. The usage of open-standard distributed IoT solutions can solve many problems that are associated with centralized approaches. Blockchain technology is nothing but a distributed ledger of transactions. It offers direct communication to connected devices. Such devices collect data and all legitimate participants can access that. Thus, decentralized blockchain networks can provide improved security of IoT-based solutions"--
