The Oxford handbook of twentieth-century American literature
A collection of essays situating twentieth-century American literature in a global frame. This volume reads US literature through the a range of critical lenses, including critical race and indigenous studies, disability and care studies, environmental criticism, gender analysis, and media studies.
Intro -- Title Page -- Copyright Page -- Contents -- List of Figures -- List of Contributors -- List of Abbreviations -- Introduction: Structures, Movements, Attachments, Imaginaries -- Part 1 Structures -- 1. The Book of Love is Long and Boring: Reading Aloud, Care Work, and Children's Literature -- 2. Colonization to Climate Change: American Literature and a Planet on Fire -- 3. Nuclear Poetry: Cultural Containment and Translational Leakage in Robert Lowell's For the Union Dead -- 4. Precarious Forms: Reading Labor in and beyond the Neoliberal Novel -- 5. Asian Americans in the Novel of Late Capitalism: Samuel R. Delany's The Mad Man and Kevin Kwan's Crazy Rich Asians -- Part 2 Movements -- 6. The Hidden Voice: Indigenous Experience and Authenticity in Twentieth-Century American Literature -- 7. "Jumpin' with Symphony Sid": Post-1945 American Literature and Radio -- 8. Faulkner at the Speed of History -- 9. Twentieth-Century Western Man of Color: Richard Wright, Race, and Rootlessness -- 10. "Warm with Tipsy Embraces": Allen Ginsberg, the US-China Writers' Conferences, and Queer Internationalism -- Part 3 Attachments -- 11. The Last Puritan in Shanghai: The Faded Romance of China Trade Finance and the Queerly Transnational Melancholy of Emily Hahn's Wartime Opium Smoking -- 12. Modernism's Cares: Reading For and With -- 13 Black Literary History and the Problem of Identification in Ishmael Reed's Mumbo Jumbo -- 14. Andrea Lee's Europe: Race, Interracial Desire, and Transnationalism -- 15. Where Border Meets Narrative, Where Body Meets Word: The Animality of Border Subjectivity -- Part 4 Imaginaries -- 16. Of Canons and Cabinets: Indigenous Bodies, Epistemological Spectacle, and an Unusual Indian in the Cupboard -- 17. The Liberal Imagination Revisited: Saul Bellow, Ralph Ellison, and the Crisis of Democracy.
