Financial management : core concepts
Cover -- Title Page -- The Pearson Series in Finance -- Dedication -- Copyright -- About The Author -- Brief Contents -- Contents -- Preface -- Solving Teaching And Learning Challenges -- Mylab Finance -- Developing Employability Skills -- Table Of Contents Overview -- Instructor Teaching Resources -- Reviewers -- Acknowledgments -- Part 1: Fundamental Concepts and Basic Tools of Finance -- Chapter 1. Financial Management -- 1.1 The Cycle of Money -- 1.2 Overview of Finance Areas -- 1.3 Financial Markets -- 1.4 The Finance Manager and Financial Management -- 1.5 Objective of the Finance Manager -- Profit Maximization -- 1.6 Internal and External Players -- 1.7 The Legal Forms of Business -- Sole Proprietorship -- Partnership -- Corporations -- Hybrid Corporations -- Not-for-Profit Corporations -- 1.8 The Financial Management Setting: The Agency Model -- 1.9 Corporate Governance and Business Ethics -- Finance Follies The Financial Meltdown of 2008 -- 1.10 Why Study Finance? -- Employability -- Putting Finance To Work Now Hiring -- Key Terms -- Questions -- Prepping for Exams -- Mini-Case Richardses' Tree Farm Grows Up -- Chapter 2. Financial Statements -- 2.1 Financial Statements -- The Balance Sheet -- The Income Statement -- Statement of Retained Earnings -- 2.2 Cash Flow Identity and the Statement of Cash Flows -- The First Component: Cash Flow from Assets -- The Second Component: Cash Flow to Creditors -- The Third Component: Cash Flow to Owners -- Putting It All Together: The Cash Flow Identity -- The Statement of Cash Flows -- Free Cash Flow -- 2.3 Financial Performance Reporting -- Regulation Fair Disclosure -- Notes to the Financial Statements -- 2.4 Financial Statements on the Internet -- Putting Finance To Work Look Before You Leap -- Key Terms -- Questions -- Prepping for Exams -- Problems.
Thistitle is a Pearson Global Edition. The editorial team at Pearson has workedclosely with educators around the world to include content which is especiallyrelevant to an international and diverse audience. For courses in financialmanagement. Mastering the fundamentalconcepts of financial operations Using tools, makingconnections, and studying for success, are the three learning skills thatstudents will gain in Financial Management: Core Concepts. Anideal resource for non-finance students, this book discusses the key elementsof financial operations. The book and support materials encourage students to buildtheir skills and test their knowledge by forging connections between ideas andapplying them to real-world situations. Using the latest financial dataavailable, the 4th Edition, Global Edition, makes financeinteresting and accessible to students by relating it to their personalexperiences and exploring this field across all disciplines. MyLab® Financeis not included. Students, if MyLab Finance is arecommended/mandatory component of the course, please ask your instructor forthe correct ISBN. MyLab ## should only be purchased when required by aninstructor. Instructors, contact your Pearson representative for moreinformation.
