Handbook of social comparison : theory and research
A selective history of classic and neo-social comparison theory / Jerry Suls and Ladd Wheeler -- Interpreting and inventing social reality : attributional and constructive elements in social comparison / George R. Goethals and William M.P. Klein -- Stability of related attributes and the inference of ability through social comparison / William P. Smith and Gudmundur B. Arnkelsson -- "Can I do X?" : using the proxy comparison model to predict performance / Ren(c)♭ Martin -- Social comparison and influence in groups / Donelson R. Forsyth -- Opinion comparison : the role of the corroborator, expert, and proxy in social influence / Jerry Suls -- Self-evaluation maintenance and evolution : some speculative notes / Steven R.H. Beach and Abraham Tesser -- Individual differences in social comparison / Ladd Wheeler -- Among the better ones : upward assimilation in social comparison / Rebecca L. Collins -- Assimilative and contrastive emotional reactions to upward and downward social comparisons / Richard H. Smith -- Examining social comparisons with the test selection measure : opportunities for the researcher and the research participant / Joanne V. Wood -- Social comparison : lessons from basic research on judgment / Douglas H. Wedell and Allen Parducci --Consequences of social comparison : selective accessibility, assimilation, and contrast / Thomas Mussweiler and Fritz Strack -- Evaluating social comparison targets / Mark D. Alicke -- Social comparison, affiliation, and emotional contagion under threat / James A. Kulik and Heike I.M. Mahler -- The projective perception of the social world : a building block of social comparison processes / Joachim Krueger -- Social judgment as implicit social comparison / David Dunning -- Comparing comparisons : an integrative perspective on social comparison and counterfactual thinking / James M. Olson, Oswald Buhrmann, and Neal J. Roese -- Social identity and social comparison / Michael A. Hogg -- Social comparison and fairness : a counterfactual simulations perspective / Robert Folger and Edward Eliyahu Kass -- Social comparison processes in health and illness / Howard Tennen, Tara Eberhardt McKeee, and Glenn Affleck -- Toward an enlightenement in social comparison theory : moving beyond classic and Renaissance approaches / Bram P. Buunk and Frederick X. Gibbons
