Embryonic stem cells : methods and protocols
Machine generated contents note: 1 Methods for the Isolation and Maintenance of Murine Embryonic -- Stem Cells -- Marsha L. Roach and John D. McNeish1 -- 2 The Use of a Chemically Defined Media for the Analyses of Early -- Development in ES Cells and Mouse Embryos -- Gabriele Proetzel and Michael V. Wiles17 -- 3 Analysis of the Cell Cycle in Mouse Embryonic Stem Cells -- Pierre Savatier, H6elne Lapillonne, Ludmila Jirmanova, -- Luigi Vitelli, and Jacques Samarut27 -- 4 Murine Embryonic Stem Cells as a Model for Stress Proteins -- and Apoptosis During Differentiation -- Andre-Patrick Arrigo and Patrick Mehlen35 -- 5 Effects of Altered Gene Expression on ES Cell Differentiation -- Yong Fan and J. Richard Chaillet45 -- 6 Hypoxic Gene Regulation in Differentiating ES Cells -- David M. Adelman and M. Celeste Simon55 -- 7 Regulation of Gap Junction Protein (Connexin) Genes and Function -- in Differentiating ES Cells -- Masahito Oyamada, Yumiko Oyamada, Tomoyuki Kaneko, -- and Tetsuro Takam atsu63 -- 8 Embryonic Stem Cell Differentiation as a Model to Study -- Hematopoietic and Endothelial Cell Development -- Stuart T. Fraser, Minetaro Ogawa, Satomi Nishikawa, -- and Shin-lchi N ishikaw a71 -- 9 Analysis of Bcr-AblFunction Using an In Vitro Embryonic Stem Cell -- Differentiation System -- Takumi Era, Stephane Wong, and Owen N. Witte 83 -- 10 Embryonic Stem Cells as a Model for Studying Osteoclast Lineage -- Development -- Toshiyuki Yamane, Takahiro Kunisada, and Shin-lchi Hayashi 97 -- 11 Differentiation of Embryonic Stem Cells as a Model to Study Gene -- Function During the Development of Adipose Cells -- C hristian D ani107 -- 12 Embryonic Stem Cell Differentiation and the Vascular Lineage -- V ictoria L. B autch117 -- 13 Embryonic Stem Cells as a Model to Study Cardiac, -- Skeletal Muscle, and Vascular Smooth Muscle Cell Differentiatiin -- Anna M. Wobus, Kaomei Guan, Huang-Tian Yang, -- and Kenneth R. Boheler127 -- 14 Cardiomyocyte Enrichment in Differentiating ES Cell Cultures: -- Strategies and Applications -- Kishore B. S. Pasumarthi and Loren J. Field157 -- 15 Embryonic Stem Cells as a Model for the Physiological Analysis -- of the Cardiovascular System -- Jurgen Hescheler, Maria Wartenberg, Bernd K. Fleischmann, -- Kathrin Banach, Helmut Acker, and Heinrich Sauer 169 -- 16 Isolation of Lineage-Restricted Neural Precursors from Cultured -- ES Cells -- Tahmina Mujtaba and Mahendra S. Rao189 -- 17 Lineage Selection for Generation and Amplification of Neural -- Precursor Cells -- M eng L i2 0 5 -- 18 Selective Neural Induction from ES Cells by Stromal -- Cell-Derived InducingActivity and Its Potential Therapeutic -- Application in Parkinson's Disease -- Hiroshi Kawasaki, Kenji Mizuseki, and Yoshiki Sasai217 -- 19 Epidermal Lineage -- Tammy-Claire Troy and Kursad Turksen229 -- 20 ES Cell Differentiation Into the Hair Follicle Lineage In Vitro -- Tammy-Claire Troy and Kursad Turksen255 -- 21 Embryonic Stem Cells as a Model for Studying Melanocyte -- Development -- Toshiyuki Yamane, Shin-lchi Hayashi, and Takahiro Kunisada 261 -- 22 Using Progenitor Cells and Gene Chips to Define Genetic Pathways -- S. Steven Potter, M. Todd Valerius, and Eric W. Brunskill 269 -- 23 ES Cell-Mediated Conditional Transgenesis -- Marina Gertsenstein, Corrinne Lobe and Andras Nagy 285 -- 24 Switching on Lineage Tracers Using Site-Specific Recombination -- Susan M. Dymecki, Carolyn I. Rodriguez, -- and Rajeshwar B. Awatramani309 -- 25 From ES Cells to Mice: The Gene Trap Approach -- Francesco Cecconi and Peter Gruss 335 -- 26 Functional Genomics by Gene-Trapping in Embryonic Stem Cells -- Thomas Floss and Wolfgang Wurst347 -- 27 Phage-Displayed Antibodies to Detect Cell Markers -- Jun Lu and Steven R. Sloan 381 -- 28 Gene Transfer Using Targeted Filamentous Bacteriophage if -- David Larocca, Kristen Jensen-Pergakes, Michael A. Burg, -- and A ndrew Baird 393 -- 29 Single-Cell PCR Methods for Studying Stem Cells and Progenitors -- Jane E. Aubin, Fina Liu, and G. Antonio Candeliere 403 -- 30 Nonradioactive Labeling and Detection of mRNAs Hybridized -- onto Nucleic Acid cDNA Arrays -- Thorsten Hoevel and Manfred Kubbies417 -- 31 Expression Profiling Using Quantitative Hybridization -- on Macroarrays -- Genevieve Pietu and Charles Decraene 425 -- 32 Isolation of Antigen-Specific Intracellular Antibody Fragments -- as Single Chain Fv for Use in Mammalian Cells -- Eric Tse, Grace Chung, and Terence H. Rabbitts433 -- 33 Detection and Visualization of Protein Interactions with Protein -- Fragment Complementation Assays -- Ingrid Remy, Andre Galarneau, and Stephen W. Michnick447 -- 34 Direct Selection of cDNAs by Phage Display -- Reto Crameri, Gernot Achatz, Michael Weichel, -- and Claudio Rhyner461 -- 35 Screening for Protein-Protein Interactions in the Yeast -- Two-Hybrid System -- R. Daniel Gietz and Robin A. Woods471 -- Index 4 87
