Lipid biotechnology
Machine generated contents note: Part I. Oilseed Quality Improvement -- 1. Metabolic Engineering of Fatty Acid Biosynthesis -- David J. Schultz and John B. Ohlrogge -- 2. Biochemistry and Biotechnology of Triacylglycerol Accumulation in Plants -- Randall J. Weselake -- 3. Redirecting Lipid Metabolism in Plants -- David Hildebrand, Suryadevara Rao, and Tomoko Hatanaka -- 4. Perspectives on the Production of Industrial Oils in Genetically -- Engineered Oilseeds -- Anthony J. Kinney -- 5. New Gene Combinations Governing Saturated and Unsaturated Fatty Acid Composition in Soybean -- Richard F. Wilson, Joseph W. Burton, Vincent R. Pantalone, and Ralph E. Dewey -- 6. Strategies for the Development of NuSun Sunflower Hybrids -- Brady A. Vick and Jerry F. Miller -- 7. Biosynthesis of Ricinoleic Acid for Castor-Oil Production -- Thomas A. McKeon and Jiann-Tsyh Lin -- Part II. Oxylipins: Formation, Potential Uses, and Their Role in Defense -- 8. Enzymatic Transformation of Lipids as a Plant Defense Mechanism -- Daisuke Shibata and Hiroyuki Ohta -- 9. Biocatalysis by the Plant Lipoxygenase Pathway: Oxygenated Fatty Acid Production and Hydroperoxide Lyases -- Harold W. Gardner and Alexander N. Grechkin -- 10. Biocatalysis by the Plant Lipoxygenase Pathway: Hydroperoxide-Metabolizing Enzymes -- Alexander N. Grechkin and Harold W. Gardner -- 11. Prostaglandin-like Oxylipins in Plants: Biosynthesis, Molecular Signaling, and Response to Environment -- Martin J. Mueller -- 12. Cutin Monomers: Biosynthesis and Plant Defense -- Elizabeth Ble -- 13. Structural Diversity of Marine Oxylipins -- William H. Gerwick and Inder Pal Singh -- 14. Formation of Oxygenated Fatty Acids by Fungal Enzymes -- Ernst Oliw and Chao Su -- 15. Enzymic Formation of Flavor Volatiles from Lipids -- Wilfried Schwab and Peter Schreier -- 16. Terpenoid-Based Defense in Plants and Other Organisms -- Mario R. Tellez, Stephen O. Duke, Kevin K. Schrader, Franck E. Dayan, -- Joanne G. Romagni, and Mozaina Kobaisy -- Part III. Lipases and Food Nutrition -- 17. Lipases: Structure, Function, and Properties -- Alejandro G. Marangoni -- 18. Industrial Uses of Lipase -- Ching T. Hou -- 19. Plant Lipases as Biocatalysts -- Kumar D. Mukherjee -- 20. Phospholipases in Enzyme Engineering of Phospholipids for Food, Cosmetics, and Medical Applications -- Yugo Iwasaki and Tsuneo Yamane -- 21. Enzymatic Synthesis of Structured Lipids -- Casimir C. Akoh, Subramani Sellappan, Lydia B. Fomuso, and -- Vivienne V. Yankah -- 22. Enzymatic Production of Betapol and Other Specialty Fats -- Casimir C. Akoh and Xuebing Xu -- 23. Enzyme-Mediated Modification of Milkfat -- Victor M. Balcdo and F. Xavier Malcata -- 24. Enzymatic Enrichment of Polyunsaturated Fatty Acids -- Yuji Shimada, Akio Sugihara, and Yoshio Tominaga -- 25. Production of Tailor-Made Polyunsaturated Phospholipids Through Bioconversions -- Koretaro Takahashi and Masashi Hosokawa -- Part IV. Biocatalysts in Nonfood Applications -- 26. Enzymatic Preparation of Chiral Pharmaceutical Intermediates by Lipases -- Ramesh N. Patel -- 27. Production of C20 Polyunsaturated Fatty Acids by an Arachidonic Acid-Producing Fungus Mortierella alpina 1S-4 and Related Strains -- Jun Ogawa, Eiji Sakuradani, and Sakayu Shimizu -- 28. Microbial Transformations of Steroids -- Herbert L. Holland -- 29. Enzymatic Approaches to the Production of Biodiesel Fuels -- Michael J. Haas, George J. Piazza, and Thomas A. Foglia -- 30. Lipase-Catalyzed Synthesis of Value-Added Fatty Acid Esters -- Jei-Fu Shaw -- 31. Microbiological Conversions of Fatty Acids to Value-Added Products -- Tsung Min Kuo, Tsuneo Kaneshiro, and Ching T. Hou -- 32. Biosynthesis and Applications of Glycolipid and Lipopeptide Biosurfactants -- David C. Herman and Raina M. Maier -- 33. Application of Lipolytic Enzymes in Detergents -- Maarten R. Egmond -- 34. Supercritical Fluid Technology for Lipid Extraction, Fractionation, -- and Reactions -- Jerry W. King -- 35. Enzyme Reactions in Supercritical Fluids -- Osato Miyawaki and Kozo Nakamura
