The handbook of environmental chemistry / O. Hutzinger, ed.-in-chief, Air pollution ; Vol. 4: Intercontinental transport of air pollution
Transboundary transport of air pollution has been a topic of scientific research for several decades and has also been addressed already by environmental policies. However, the importance of air pollution transport on the largest - intercontinental - scales, has been recognized only recently. It was soon found that the meteorological and chemical processes involved in intercontinental pollution transport are distinctly different from those occurring during regional-scale transport, and thus new scientific methodologies are required for their study. In this book, leading scientists review the current state of knowledge in this emerging field of research, providing the reader with a process understanding of global-scale transport and its influence on the atmosphere's chemical composition. Long-range transport of anthropogenic pollution is contrasted with that of pollution produced by natural processes such as dust storms or forest fires. Furthermore, the prospects for international management of intercontinental transport of anthropogenic pollution are discussed. TOC:Andreas Stohl, Sabine Eckhardt: Intercontinental Transport of Air Pollution ? An Introduction.- Jan Bottenheim, Ashu Dastoor, Sun-Ling Gong, Kaz Higuchi, Yi-Fan Li: Long Range Transport of Air Pollution to the Arctic.- Owen R. Cooper: Air pollution export from and import to North America: Experimental evidence.- Heidi Huntrieser, Hans Schlager: Air Pollution Export From and Import to Europe: Experimental Evidence.- Pakpong Pochanart, Oliver Wild, Hajime Akimoto: Air Pollution Import to and Export From East Asia.- Mark G. Lawrence: Export of Air Pollution from Southern Asia and its Large-Scale Effects.- Stuart J. Piketh, Nicola Walton: Characteristics of Atmospheric Transport of Air Pollution for Africa.- Martin G. Schultz: Numerical Modelling of Long-range Pollution Transport.- Anne M. Thompson: Intercontinental Transport of Ozone from Tropical Biomass Burning.-Nicole Spichtinger-Rakowsky, Caroline Forster: Intercontinental Transport of Trace Substances from Boreal Forest Fires.- Rudolf B. Husar: Intercontinental Transport of Dust: Historical and Recent Observational Evidence.- Terry J. Keating: Prospects for International Management of Intercontinental Air Pollution Transport
