Biodegradation and bioremediation : with 12 tables
The diverse metabolic capabilities of microorganisms and their interactions with hazardous organic and inorganic compounds have long been recognized. Microbial processes are environmentally compatible and can be integrated with non-biological processes to detoxify, degrade and immobilize environmental contaminants. Bioremediation, the application of biological methods, has been used successfully for soil remediation. For this volume, a number of experts from universities, government laboratories and industry, share their specialist knowledge in environmental microbiology and biotechnology. Chapters dealing with microbiological, biochemical and molecular aspects of biodegradation and bioremediation cover numerous topics, including: bioavailability, biodegradation of various pollutants, microbial community dynamics, properties and engineering of important biocatalysts, and methods for monitoring bioremediation processes. TOC: 1 Biotechnology and Bioremediation ? An Overview, A. Singh and O. Ward; 2 Microbial Community Dynamics During Bioremediation of Hydrocarbons, E.A. Green and G. Voordouw; 3 Bioavailability and Biodegradation of Organic Pollutants ? A Microbial Perspective, J.Van Hamme; 4 Anaerobic Biodegradation of Hydrocarbons, J.D. Coates; 5 Biotransformation, Biodegradation and Bioremediation of Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons, M. Aitken and T.C. Long; 6 Biodegradation and Bioremediation of Halogenated Organic Compounds, W.W. Mohn; 7 Biodegradation of N-Containing Xenobiotics, J. Ye, A. Singh and O.P. Ward; 8 Aromatic Hydrocarbon Dioxygenases, R. Parales and S.M. Resnick; 9 Bacterial Reductive Dehalogenases, M. B. Habash, J.D. Trevors and H. Lee; 10 Engineering of improved biocatalysts in bioremediation, W. Chen and A. Mulchandani; 11 Combined Biological and Abiological Degradation of Xenobiotic Compounds, R. Crawford, T.F. Hess and A. Paszczynski; 12 Methods for Monitoring and Assessment of Bioremediation Processes, A. Singh, R.C. Kuhad, Z. Shareefdeen and O.P. Ward
