Solving problems in scientific computing using Maple and MATLAB : with 12 tables
From the reviews: "... An excellent reference on undergraduate mathematical computing." American Mathematical Monthly "... the book is worth buying if you want guidance in applying Maple and MATLAB to problems in the workplace..." Computing Reviews "... The presentation is unique, and extremely interesting. I was thrilled to read this text, and to learn the powerful problem-solving skills presented by these authors. I recommend the text highly, as a learning experience, not only to engineering students, but also to anyone interested in computation." Mathematics of Computation For this edition four chapters have been added. Some of the chapters of the previous editions were revised using new possibilities offered by Maple and MATLAB. Some interesting web pages related to Maple and MATLAB have been added in an appendix. Moreover, the editors have created a web page (www.SolvingProblems.inf.ethz.ch), where all Maple and MATLAB programs are available. TOC:The Tractrix and Similar Curves. Trajectory of a Spinning Tennis Ball. The Illumination Problem. Orbits in the Planar Three-Body Problem. The Internal Field in Semiconductors. Some Least Squares Problems. The Generalized Billiard Problem. Mirror Curves. Smoothing Filters. The Radar Problem. Conformal Mapping of a Circle. The Spinning Top. The Calibration Problem. Heat Flow Problems. Modeling Penetration Phenomena. Heat Capacity of System of Bose Particles. Free Metal Compression. Gauss Quadrature. Symbolic Computation of Explicit Runge-Kutta Formulas. Transient Response of a Two-Phase Half-Wave Rectifier. Circuits in Power Electronics. Newton's and Kepler's Laws. Least Squares Fit of Point Clouds. Modeling Social Processes. Contour Plots of Analytic Functions. Non-Linear Least Squares: Finding the Most Accurate Location of an Aircraft. Computing Plane Sundials. Agriculture Kinematics. The Catenary Curve. Least Squares Fit with Piecewise Functions. Portfolio Problems - Solved Online. Appendix. Index
