Issues of human computer interaction
Preface / Anabela Sarmento -- Sect. I. Tools to improve usability and Web design -- Ch. I. Service-oriented human computer interaction and scripting / Neil McBride and Ibrahim Elbeltagi -- Ch. II. User acceptance of online computer games : comparing two models in a field study / Yuan Gao -- Ch. III. Web-STAR : development of survey tools for use with requirements gathering in Web site development / Jonathan Lazar, Adam Jones and Kisha-Dawn Greenidge -- Sect. II. Internet and end users' concerns -- Ch. IV. The use of query operators and their effect on the results from Web search engines / Bernard J. Jansen -- Ch. V. Interactive proxy for URL correction / Kai-Hsiang Yang -- Ch. VI. Emerging practices and standards for designing business Web sites : recommendations for developers / Carmine Sellitto and Andrew Wenn -- Sect. III. IT and issues regarding human resources management -- Ch. VII. A framework for defining e-business IT skills portfolio / Susy Chan and Abdulrahman A. Mirza -- Ch. VIII. Issues in end-user behavior / Murray E. Jennex -- Ch. IX. Employee perceptions of outsourcing of information technology operations : an empirical investigation / Lynda Roberson Louis -- Sect. IV. Human and organizational issues regarding IT adoption and use -- Ch. X. Surfacing occupational threats to IT-enabled change : a neglected role for organization development? / Joe McDonagh -- Ch. XI. Human factors in the "system selection" stage of library automation / Nasrine Olson -- Ch. XII. Stressing office technology's non-technical side : applying concepts from adaptive structuration theory / Huub J. M. Ruel -- Ch. XIII. Expanding the information carrying capacity of the new media in the context of virtual teams / John D'Ambra and Zixiu Guo -- Ch. XIV. Change and challenge : managing the e-business organization / John Mendonca -- Sect. V. Case studies of human and organizational issues regarding IT adoption and use -- Ch. XV. Data quality and work alignment : do IT professionals think differently? / Latif Al-Hakim and Hongjiang Xu -- Ch. XVI. Human issues and computer interaction : a study of a U.K. police call centre / Steve Clarke, Brian Lehaney and Huw Evans -- Ch. XVII. The role of group learning in implementation of a personnel management system in a hospital / Tatyana Bondarouk and Klass Sikkel
