Religion and American politics : from the colonial period to the present
Introduction / Mark A. Noll -- A Protestant Era: Colonial Era to the Civil War: 1. Religion and politics in America from the first settlements to the Civil War / John M. Murrin -- 2. Religion and ideological change in the American Revolution / Ruth H. Bloch -- 3. Rhetoric and reality in the early republic : the case of the Federalist clergy / Harry S. Stout -- 4. Religion, government, and power in the new American nation / John F. Wilson -- 5. The democratization of Christianity and the character of American politics / Nathan O. Hatch -- 6. Religion and politics in the antebellum North / Daniel Walker Howe -- 7. Ethnoreligious political behavior in the mid-nineteenth century : voting, values, cultures / Robert P. Swierenga -- 8. Methodists, politics, and the coming of the American Civil War / Richard Cawardine -- New Configurations: -- 9. Slavery, race, and political ideology in the white Christian South before and after the Civil War / Luke E. Harlow -- 10. Protestant theological tensions and political styles in the progressive period / Robert T. Handy -- 11. Roman Catholics and American politics, 1900-1960 : altered circumstances, continuing patterns / James Hennesey -- Tumults and Realignments since World War II: 12. Faith transformed: religion and American politics from FDR to George W. Bush / Lyman Kellstedt, John Green, Corwin Smidt, and James Guh -- 13. Evangelicalism becomes Southern, politics becomes evangelical: from FDR to Ronald Reagan / Darren Dochuk -- 14. Viewed in black and white: conservative Protestantism, racial issues, and oppositional politics / Michael O. Emerson and J. Russell Hawkins -- 15. Roman Catholics and American politics, 1960-2004 / Peter Steinfels -- 16. Women, politics, and religion / Margaret Bendroth -- Reflections: 17. Contemporary views from abroad: -- A. Why it is difficult for European observers to understand the relationship between American politics and religion in the twenty-first century / Manfred Siebald -- B. American civil religion and George W. Bush / Sébastien Fath -- C. Crusade for freedom, exportation of the American model, and George W. Bush's second inaugural address / Massimo Rubboli -- D. For God's sake?: American religion and politics viewed from Denmark / Bente Clausen -- E. Australian perspectives on American religion and politics in the Bush era / Mark Hutchinson -- 18. Canadian counterpoint / Mark A. Noll -- 19. Quid obscurum : the changing terrain of church-state relations / Robert Wuthnow -- 20. Religion, politics, and the search for an American consensus / George M. Marsden
