Fundamentals of Applied Dynamics
Introduction -- Vectors and Moments -- Kinematics -- Dynamics of Particles -- Dynamics of Systems -- Inertia -- Rigid Body Dynamics -- Advanced Topics in Rigid Body Dynamics -- Appendix A: Linear Algebra -- Appendix B: Linkages -- Appendix C: Properties of Inertia -- Appendix D: Appendix to the Exercises -- Index.
Whether it is analyzing the stability of an underwater robot or predicting the trajectory of a satellite, today’s engineers are solving increasingly difficult and unconventional problems in dynamics. "Fundamentals of Applied Dynamics" provides students with all of the foundations they need to solve problems in Newtonian mechanics. The author’s unique, methodological approach also helps students to develop their problem-solving, abstract thinking, and spatial relations skills. In each chapter, general concepts are presented first, followed by illustrated examples and worked problems. Notation and methodology are consistently presented whenever possible, so that the student will recognize principles common to particle dynamics, system dynamics, and rigid body dynamics. The text is complemented by over XXX figures, and early XXX problems help students to strengthen their skills. A supplementary website with MAPLE animations is available at http://www.springer.com/physics/classical+continuum+physics/book/978-0-387-00887-5. Fundamentals of Applied Dynamics covers Newtonian mechanics, without Hamiltonian or Lagrangian formalism. No further knowledge other than one year of calculus is required. Dr. Roberto Tenenbaum has over 30 years of teaching experience. He is a professor of Mechanical Engineering at the University of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Some praise for the original edition: "[Fundamentals of Applied Dynamics] contains a large number of examples treated in great detail... The author takes great pains to carefully examine all the points touched upon ... The material is presented in a very systematic way, almost always going from the general to the more particular. The text is extremely clear and consistent, and all the figures are of excellent quality... The careful, authoritative and comprehensive way in which the material is presented reflects the long experience of the author in teaching dynamics to generations of students." -PETER HAGEDORN, DARMSTADT UNIVERSITY OF TECHNOLOGY.
