Thermal decomposition of solids and melts : new thermochemical approach to the mechanism, kinetics and methodology
"This book covers the results of investigations into the mechanisms and kinetics of thermal decompositions of solid and liquid substances on the basis of thermochemical analyses of the processes. In the framework of the proposed ideas, the main features of these reactions are explained and many problems and unusual phenomena, which have accumulated in this field are interpreted. New methods of TA measurement and calculation have been developed, which permit the precision and accuracy of determination of kinetic parameters to be increased substantially. Reliable kinetic characteristics have been obtained and the decomposition mechanisms for several tens of substances have been interpreted. These include different classes of compounds: crystalline hydrates, oxides, hydroxides, nitrides, azides, nitrates, sulfates, carbonates and oxalates. FOREWORD It has been an interesting task helping Professor Boris L'vov with the production of an English version of his book. Although we have, unfortunately, never met in person, we have had many contacts by e-mail. He kindly presented me with a copy of the Russian edition of his book soon after publication and I was immediately frustrated by not being able to read it. Professor L'vov's work is both original and controversial and spread over an impressive number of primary publications. This literature had been condensed by the chief author into a book of manageable size, but still needed to be made accessible to the English-speaking world. One of my motives in offering to assist with the English edition was to ""force"" myself to pay close attention to his complex ideas and suggestions. I think that I have come out of the process with a greater appreciation of some aspects, but still have to undergo a full ""conversion experience""! Time just did not allow lengthy exchanges between us and these will, perhaps, have to be postponed for future debates in the literature. My hope is that this translation will bring Professor L'vov's work to the attention of a wider audience and that this will promote constructive discussion of the assumptions made. Grahamstown, February 2007 Michael E. Brown"
