The sustainable urban development reader
"A comprehensive and intellectually rich compendium of the state-of-the-art knowledge on sustainable urban development! This scholarly, judicious choice of topics and contributors, and the sequencing of the readings are admirable! It is a carefully crafted synthesis of the major themes associated with sustainable urban development." - "Journal of the American Planning Association". "A spirited and highly useful addition to the literature" - "Journal of Planning Education and Research".Building on the success of its first edition, the second edition of the "Sustainable Urban Development Reader" expands its selection of classic material on sustainable community development. As in the previous edition, it begins by tracing the roots of the sustainable development concept in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, before presenting classic readings on a number of dimensions of the sustainability concept. The topics covered include land use and urban design, transportation, ecological planning and restoration, energy and materials use, economic development, social and environmental justice, and green architecture and building. All sections have a concise editorial introduction that places the selection in context and suggests further reading. Additional sections cover tools for sustainable development, sustainable development internationally, visions of sustainable community and case studies from around the world.The book also includes educational exercises for individuals, university classes, or community groups, and an extensive list of recommended readings. The anthology remains unique in presenting a broad array of classic readings in this field, each with a concise introduction placing it within the context of this evolving discourse. It includes updated material on: global warming, issues in less developed countries, ecotourism, prospects for sustainable development in China, megacities case studies of sustainable development. The "Sustainable Development Reader" presents an authoritative overview of the field using original sources in a highly readable format for university classes in urban studies, environmental studies, the social sciences, and related fields. It also makes a wide range of sustainable urban planning-related material available to the public in a clear and accessible way, thus forming an indispensable resource for anyone interested in the future of urban environments.
