Young workers, globalization and the labor market : comparing early working life in eleven countries
Struggling to become an insider : does increasing flexibility at labor market entry affect early careers? : a theoretical framework / Erzsébet Bukodi ... [et al.] -- Youth unemployment in Western Europe : the effects of individual, market, and institutional factors / Katrin Golsch -- A new mobility regime in Germany? : young people's labor market entry and phase of establishment since the mid-1980s / Sandra Buchholz and Karin Kurz -- Increasing labor market instability among young people? : labor market entry and early career development among school-leavers in the Netherlands since the mid-1980s / Maarten H.J. Wolbers -- Increasing employment instability in France? : young people's labor market entry and early careers since the 1990s / Simone Zdrojewski, Yvette Grelet and Louis-André Vallet -- Increasing employment instability among young people? : labor market entries and early careers in Spain since the mid-1970s / Juan I. Martínez-Pastor, Fabrizio Bernardi and Luis Garrido -- Flexibilizing the Italian labor market : unanticipated consequences of partial and target labor market deregulation / Paolo Barbieri and Stefani Scherer -- Increasing employment instability among young people? : labor market entries and early careers in Great Britain since the 1980s / Paul Schmelzer -- Increasing employment instability among young people? : labor market entries and early careers in the United States of America, 1984-2002 / Ilona Relikowski, Markus Zielonka and Heather Hofmeister -- Increasing employment instability among young people? : labor market entries and early careers in Sweden 1980-2000 / Karin Halldén and Martin Hällsten -- Weaker entries--lower risk of unemployment : labor market entry trends in Denmark between 1981 and 2003 / Ellen Ebralidze and Søren Leth-Sørensen -- Increasing labor market insecurities among young people? : labor market entry process in Hungary since the early 1980s / Erzsébet Bukodi -- Changing mobility regime in Estonia? : young people's labor market entry and early careers since the 1980s / Kadri Täht, Ellu Saar and Marge Unt -- Young people's employment chances in flexible labor markets : a comparison of changes in eleven modern societies / Karin Kurz ... [et al.]
