International strategy : context, concepts and implications
"This book is designed for every student who will be involved in managing and advising companies that compete internationally or face international competitors. Designed around the course at Harvard Business School, Collis' new text takes the firm which operates across borders as a unit of analysis and the senior manager in a multinational as the typical decision-maker. Illustrated with examples from companies of all sizes from around the globe, this text provides students with the means to navigate their way through the decisions they will face and formulate an effective business strategy. This is a much-needed guide to the common strategic issues that arise when firms compete internationally"--
"Guide to the generic strategic issues that arise when firms compete internationally. Designed for every student who will be involved in managing and advising companies that compete internationally or face international competitors. Takes the firm which operates across borders as a unit of analysis and the senior manager in a multinational as the typical decision-maker. Illustrated with examples from companies of all sizes from around the globe"--
This book is designed for every student who will be involved in managing and advising companies that compete internationally or face international competitors. Designed around the course at Harvard Business School, Collis' new text takes the firm which operates across borders as a unit of analysis and the senior manager in a multinational as the typical decision-maker. Illustrated with examples from companies of all sizes from around the globe, this text provides students with the means to navigate their way through the decisions they will face and formulate an effective business strategy. This is a much-needed guide to the common strategic issues that arise when firms compete internationally.
Guide to the generic strategic issues that arise when firms compete internationally. Designed for every student who will be involved in managing and advising companies that compete internationally or face international competitors. Takes the firm which operates across borders as a unit of analysis and the senior manager in a multinational as the typical decision-maker. Illustrated with examples from companies of all sizes from around the globe.
