The changing face of academic life : analytical and comparative perspectives
Based on new comparative and analytical frameworks, this book provides a comprehensive and transnational account of major structural developments that are changing the traditional features of the academic profession. It examines the wider changes in higher education such as new governance models, massification and marketization, identity formation, internationalization and globalization, as well as new forms of knowledge production and their effects on academic life. This collection analyses the effects these changes will have on academic careers, and on employment relationships and academic labour markets in Europe and America. Contents: Enders, Jürgen/Weert, Egbert de: Introduction. - PART I. Modernisation Processes and the Academic Profession (Neave, Guy: The Academic Estate Revisited. Reflections on Academia's Rapid Progress from the Capitoline Hill to the Tarpeian Rock. - Enders, Jürgen/Boer, Harry de/Leisyte, Liudvika: New Public Management and the Academic Profession: the Rationalisation of Academic Work Revisted. - Scott, Peter: Markets and New Modes of Knowledge Production. - Henkel, Mary: Policy Change and the Challenge to Academic Identities. - Marginson, Simon: The Academic Professions in the Global Era). - PART II. Academic Profession and the Academic Workplace (Musselin, Christine: Profession, Market and Organisation. How is Academia Regulated? - Weert, Egbert de: The Organised Contradictions of Teaching and Research. Reshaping the Academic Profession. - Kehm, Barbara M. Doctoral Education. Pressures for Change and Modernisation. - Fairweather, James: Work Allocation and Rewards in Shaping Academic Work). - PART III. Changing Employment Relations in Higher Education (Farnham, David: Employment Relations in Europe. a Comparative and Critical Review. - Finkelstein, Martin J./Galaz-Fontes, Jesus F./Scott Metcalfe, Amy: Changing Employment Relationships in North America. Academic Work in the United States, Canada and Mexico). - PART IV. Conclusion (Enders, Jürgen/Weert, Egbert de: Towards a T-shaped Profession. Academic Work and Career in the Knowledge Society) (HoF/text adopted)
