What is right for children? : the competing paradigms of religion and human rights
Children's rights as human rights. The United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child : empowering parents to protect their children's rights / Barbara Bennett Woodhouse and Kathryn A. Johnson -- Child, family, state, and gender equality in religious stances and human rights instruments : a preliminary comparison / Linda C. McClain -- Rhetoric, religion, and human rights : "save the children!" / Barbara Stark -- Feminist fundamentalism on the frontier between government and family responsibility for children / Mary Ann Case -- Using international human rights law in US courts : lessons from the campaign against the juvenile death penalty / Linda M. Keller -- The lesser culpability of the juvenile offender : trial in adult criminal court, incarceration with adults, and excessive sanctions / Bernardine Dohrn -- Parental rights doctrine : creating and maintaining maternal value / Annette R. Appell --Placing children in context : parents, foster care, and poverty / Naomi Cahn --Expanding the parent-child-state triangle in public family law : the role of private providers / Susan Vivian Mangold
Advocating for children's rights in a lawless nation : articulating rights for foster children / Barbara Bennett Woodhouse and Brooke Hardy -- A proposal for collaborative enforcement of a federal right to education / Kimberly Jenkins Robinson --Taking children's interests seriously / Martha Albertson Fineman --Child's right to religious freedom in international law : the search for meaning / Ursula Kilkelly -- Clashing rights and welfare : a return to a rights discourse in family law in the UK? / Shazia Choudhry -- Accommodating children's religious expression in public schools : a comparative analysis of the veil and other religious symbols in Western democracies / Catherine J. Ross -- Children, education, and rights in a society divided by religion : the perspectives of children and young people / Laura Lundy -- Children, international human rights, and the politics of belonging / Alice Hearst --The right of children to be loved / S. Matthew Liao
