Fluid-structure interactions : cross-flow-induced instabilities
"Structures in contact with fluid flow, whether natural or man-made, are inevitably subject to flow-induced forces and flow-induced vibration: from plant leaves to traffic signs and to more substantial structures, such as bridge decks and heat exchanger tubes. Under certain conditions the vibration may be self-excited, and it is usually referred to as an instability. These instabilities and, more specifically, the conditions under which they arise are of great importance to designers and operators of the systems concerned because of the significant potential to cause damage in the short term. Such flow-induced instabilities are the subject of this book. In particular, the flow-induced instabilities treated in this book are associated with cross-flow, that is, flow normal to the long axis of the structure. The book treats a specific set of problems that are fundamentally and technologically important: galloping, vortex-shedding oscillations under lock-in conditions, and rain-and-wind-induced vibrations, among others. The emphasis throughout is on providing a physical description of the phenomena that is as clear and up-to-date as possible"--
"Structures in contact with fluid flow, whether natural or man-made, are inevitably subject to flow-induced forces and flow-induced vibration: from plant leaves to traffic signs and to more substantial structures, such as bridge decks and heat exchanger tubes. Under certain conditions the vibration may be self-excited, and it is usually referred to as an instability. These instabilities and, more specifically, the conditions under which they arise are of great importance to designers and operators of the systems concerned because of the significant potential to cause damage in the short term. Such flow-induced instabilities are the subject of this book. In particular, the flow-induced instabilities treated in this book are associated with cross-flow, that is, flow normal to the long axis of the structure. The book treats a specific set of problems that are fundamentally and technologically important: galloping, vortex-shedding oscillations under lock-in conditions, and rain-and-wind-induced vibrations, among others. The emphasis throughout is on providing a physical description of the phenomena that is as clear and up-to-date as possible"--Provided by publisher
