The Routledge companion to organizational change
Introduction: The Emergence of Organizational Change (David Boje, Bernard Burnes and John Hassard) Part I: Planned Change and Organization Development Introduction (Bernard Burnes) 1. Kurt Lewin and the Origins of OD (Bernard Burnes) 2. Kurt Lewin's Vision of Organizational and Social Change: The Interdependence of Theory, Research and Action/Practice (David Bargal) 3. Organization Development and Action Research: Then and Now (David Coghlan) 4. The Early Cold War Politics of Action Research and Group Dynamics (Bill Cooke) 5. Organization Development and International Contexts: Values, Controversies and Challenges (Christopher J Rees) 6. Appreciative Inquiry: Theory and Critique (Gervase Bushe) 7. Images of Organization Development: The Role of Metaphor in Processes of Change (Cliff Oswick and Robert J. Marshak) Part II: Newer Approaches to Change Introduction (Bernard Burnes) 8. The Contribution of the Processual Approach to the Theory and Practice of Organizational Change (Patrick Dawson) 9. Understanding the Emergent Approach to Change (Bernard Burnes) 10. Complexity Ethics (Hugo Letiche) 11. Narratives of Coherence: The Role of Affordances and Homologies (Michael Lissack) 12. Storytelling in Systemicity and Emergence: A Third Order Cybernetic (David Boje and Tonya Wakefield) Part III: Perspectives on Change Introduction (John Hassard) 13. A Dramaturgical Approach to the Practice of Managing Change (Richard Badham, Amanda Mead and Elena Antonacopoulo) 14. Designing for Change with Critical Scenario Method (George Cairns) 15. Organizations Unbound: Psychodynamic Perspectives on Organizational Restructuring (Paula Hyde) 16. Contemporary Realism and Organizational Change (Stephen Ackroyd) 17. Organization Theory, Power and Changing Institutions (Stewart Clegg and John Gray) 18. Organizational Change and Dialectic Processes (Ann Langley and Pamela Sloan) 19. Critical Theories of Organizational Change (Andre Spicer and Charlotta Levay) Part IV: Change in Practice Introduction (John Hassard) 20. Leadership and Change: Whatever Happened to Ethics? (Rune Todnem By and Bernard Burnes) 21. Management Fads and Fashions (David Collins) 22. Organizational Entrapment (Helga Drummond) 23. Power and Discourse in Organizational Change: The Case of Implementing Enterprise Resource Planning Systems (David Grant and Richard Hall) 24. Cultural Change (Slawomir Magala) 25. Changing Attitudes to Employee Attitudes to Change: From Resistance to Ambivalence and Ambiguity (Stephen Procter and Julian Randall) 26. Narrating Organizational Change (Melanie Bryant and Julie Wolfram Cox) 27. Governance and Organizational Change (John Storey) Part V: Key Issues Introduction (David Boje) 28. The Ambiguity Paradox in Cultural Change (Richard Badham, Richard Claydon and Simon Down) 29. Organizational Change as Imperialism (Raza Mir and Ali Mir) 30. OD Discourse and Domination (Maxim Voronov and Warner P. Woodworth) 31. Practices of Stakeholder Engagement and Identity Dynamics (Nic Beech and Rob McIntosh) 32. Reflections on Polyphonic Organization (Mary Ann Hazen) 33. Helping Diversity Matter: Fostering Liminal Spaces for Authentic Interaction in the Face of Change (Jo A. Tyler) 34. Making Sense of Gender and Organizational Change: A Feminist Review of Certain Articles (Albert Mill, Kathy Sanderson and Jean Mills) 35. The Moral of the Story: Ethics, Narrative, and Organizational Change (Carl Rhodes) Part VI: The Future Introduction (David Boje) 36. Organization Change: The Aesthetic Dimension (Phil Hancock) 37. Sustainability and Organizational Change (Suzanne Benn and Kate Kearins) 38. Rethinking the Change Project (Theodore Taptiklis) 39. The Promise of Re-enchantment: Organizational Change and the Spirituality at Work Movement (Scott Taylor and Emma Bell) 40. Social Materiality: A New Direction in Change Management and Action Research (David M Boje, Ivy DuRant, Krisha Coppedge, Ted Chambers and Marilu Marcillo) Postscript Change in a Changing World: Where Now? (David Boje, Bernard Burnes and John Hassard)
