Artificial neural networks in biological and environmental analysis
"The cornerstones of research into prospective tools of artificial intelligence originate from knowledge of the functioning brain. Like most transforming scientific endeavors, this field-- once viewed with speculation and doubt--has had profound impacts in helping investigators elucidate complex biological, chemical, and environmental processes. Such efforts have been catalyzed by the upsurge in computational power and availability, with the co-evolution of software, algorithms, and methodologies contributing significantly to this momentum. Whether or not the computational power of such techniques is sufficient for the design and construction of truly intelligent neural systems is of continued debate. In writing Artificial Neural Networks in Biological and Environmental Analysis, my aim was to provide in-depth and timely perspectives on the fundamental, technological, and applied aspects of computational neural networks. By presenting basic principles of neural networks together with real applications in the field, I seek to stimulate communication and partnership among scientists in the fields as diverse as biology, chemistry, mathematics, medicine, and environmental science. This interdisciplinary discourse is essential not only for the success of independent and collaborative research and teaching programs, but also for the continued acquiescence of the use of neural network tools in scientific inquiry"--
"The cornerstones of research into prospective tools of artificial intelligence originate from knowledge of the functioning brain. Like most transforming scientific endeavors, this field-- once viewed with speculation and doubt--has had profound impacts in helping investigators elucidate complex biological, chemical, and environmental processes. Such efforts have been catalyzed by the upsurge in computational power and availability, with the co-evolution of software, algorithms, and methodologies contributing significantly to this momentum. Whether or not the computational power of such techniques is sufficient for the design and construction of truly intelligent neural systems is of continued debate. In writing Artificial Neural Networks in Biological and Environmental Analysis, my aim was to provide in-depth and timely perspectives on the fundamental, technological, and applied aspects of computational neural networks. By presenting basic principles of neural networks together with real applications in the field, I seek to stimulate communication and partnership among scientists in the fields as diverse as biology, chemistry, mathematics, medicine, and environmental science. This interdisciplinary discourse is essential not only for the success of independent and collaborative research and teaching programs, but also for the continued acquiescence of the use of neural network tools in scientific inquiry"--Provided by publisher
