Asian financial crisis : financial, structural and international dimensions
The Asian five : from financial crisis to economic recovery / M.Faizul Islam -- East Asian crises and global capital flows : cause or effect ? / Christopher Lingle, Reuben Mondejar -- Which failed : Asian capitalism or international capital markets? / James W. Dean -- Financial liberalization, capital mobility, and financial crises / Jiawen Yang -- The impact of liberalization and regionalism upon capital markets in emerging Asian economies / Christopher Bilson, Vince Hooper, Martin Jaugietis -- Two years after financial reform : capital market developments in Korea / Woon-Youl Choi, Yeong-Ho Woo -- Korean banking reform following the asian financial crisis / Hisanori Kataoka -- The asian financial crisis : an evaluation of market intervention policies by Hong Kong regulators / Anindya K. Bhattacharya -- The Asian financial crisis : moral hazard in more ways than one / Jongmoo Jay Choi -- Asian crisis and implications for industrial policies / Sung-Hee Jwa, Jung-Hwan Seo -- Financial crisis and perspectives on Korean economic development / Young Back Choi -- Ownership structure and family control in Korean conglomerates / Ungki Lim -- The Asian paradox of miracle and debacle : an exploratory study / Peter Ping Li, Tung-lung Chang -- How cultural factors led to risky antecedent market conditions and the 1997 Asian economic crisis / Edmund A Kellerman, Ilan Alon -- Origins and policy implications of the asian financial crisis / Phil Sang Lee, Kyung Suh Park -- Sociopolitical analysis of Korean economic crisis of 1997 / S.J. Chang -- Business in Asean's core : post-crisis opportunity amidst the economic debris / Zafar U. Ahmed, Frank L. Bartels, Tan Teng-Kee, John R.M. Gordon -- Korean financial crisis and reform : an overview / Daesik Kim, Jaeha Park. - This edited volume is a collection of original theoretical, empirical, institutional or policy-oriented articles on all dimensions of the Asian financial crisis. A unique feature of this book is its multi-faceted, yet in-depth articles on various dimensions of the Asian financial crisis written by policy-makers and practitioners as well as scholars around the world. It includes financial, structural, cultural, and international dimensions of the Asian financial crisis regarding its causes, consequences, policies, and lessons. As such, it offers an excellent one-stop collection of in-depth research articles on the topic. The book includes nineteen articles on the overview of the crisis, international capital flows and crisis, reform in financial and industrial sectors, and cultural and post-crisis opportunities
This edited volume is a collection of original theoretical, empirical, institutional or policy-oriented articles on all dimensions of the Asian financial crisis. A unique feature of this book is its multi-faceted, yet in-depth articles on various dimensions of the Asian financial crisis written by policy-makers and practitioners as well as scholars around the world. It includes financial, structural, cultural, and international dimensions of the Asian financial crisis regarding its causes, consequences, policies, and lessons. As such, it offers an excellent one-stop collection of in-depth research articles on the topic. The book includes nineteen articles on the overview of the crisis, international capital flows and crisis, reform in financial and industrial sectors, and cultural and post-crisis opportunities
