Multi-level issues in organizational behavior and strategy
Overview : multi-level issues in organizational behavior and strategy / Francis J. Yammarino, Fred Dansereau -- Grounded theory and the integration of qualitative and quantitative research / Robert P. Gephart -- How? and why? : theory emergence and using the grounded theory method to determine levels of analysis / Ken W. Parry -- Going deeper into building a grounded theory approach : from verification to discovery / Yair Berson, Bruce J. Avolio, Surinder Kahai -- Multi-level influences on firm performance : insights from the resource-based view and strategic groups research / Jeremy C. Short, Timothy B. Palmer, David J. Ketchen -- Integrating the resource-based and strategic groups' influences on firm performance : extending a meso perspective / William F. Joyce -- Two faces of strategic group theory / Steven C. Michael -- Facing up to a meso perspective : research issues for testing firm and strategic group influences on performance / Jeremy C. Short, Timothy B. Palmer, David J. Ketchen -- Information regimes, information strategies and the evolution of interfirm network topologies / Mihnea C. Moldoveanu, Joel A.C. Baum, Tim J. Rowley -- Network evolution as a multi-level phenomenon / Ravindranath (Ravi) Madhavan -- Network structure, content and evolution / Gordon Walker -- Models as an explanatory strategy and the ubiquity of information as an explanation / Mihnea C. Moldoveanu, Joel A.C. Baum, Tim J. Rowley -- Enacting the future : a time- and levels-based view of strategic change / Mariann Jelinek -- Organizational learning and strategic change / Linda Argote -- Cognition and strategic change : theory development from case research / Claudia B. Schoonhoven -- Making sense of strategic change : a problem of learning and levels / Mariann Jelinek -- Positive affect, systematic cognitive processing, and behavior : toward integration of affect, cognition, and motivation / Alice M. Isen -- Connecting levels in the study of emotions in organizations / Howard M. Weiss -- Emotions at multiple levels : an integration / Neal M. Ashkanasy -- Level specification : using triangulation in a grounded theory approach to construct validation / Yair Berson, Bruce J. Avolio, Surinder Kahai -- Emotions in organizations : a multi-level perspective / Neal M. Ashkanasy. - Using a scientific debate format of a key scholarly essay followed by two commentaries and a rebuttal, this series presents theoretical work, significant empirical studies, methodological developments, analytical techniques, and philosophical treatments to advance the field of multi-level studies, regardless of disciplinary perspective. Similar to Volume 1 (Yammarino & Dansereau, 2002), Volume 2 contains five major essays that cover a range of topics, but in the realms of organizational behavior and strategy. In particular, the five critical essays offer extensive literature reviews, new model developments, methodological advancements, and some empirical data for the study of emotions, construct validation, firm performance, interfirm networks, and strategic change. While each of the major essays, as well as the commentaries and rebuttals, is unique in orientation, they share a common bond in raising and addressing multi-level issues, or discussing problems and solutions that involve multiple levels of analysis
Using a scientific debate format of a key scholarly essay followed by two commentaries and a rebuttal, this series presents theoretical work, significant empirical studies, methodological developments, analytical techniques, and philosophical treatments to advance the field of multi-level studies, regardless of disciplinary perspective. Similar to Volume 1 (Yammarino & Dansereau, 2002), Volume 2 contains five major essays that cover a range of topics, but in the realms of organizational behavior and strategy. In particular, the five critical essays offer extensive literature reviews, new model developments, methodological advancements, and some empirical data for the study of emotions, construct validation, firm performance, interfirm networks, and strategic change. While each of the major essays, as well as the commentaries and rebuttals, is unique in orientation, they share a common bond in raising and addressing multi-level issues, or discussing problems and solutions that involve multiple levels of analysis
