The long-term economics of climate change : beyond a doubling of greenhouse gas concentrations
Beyond a doubling : issues in the long-term economics of climate change / Richard B. Howarth, Darwin C. Hall -- Integrated assessment models of climate change : beyond a doubling of CO / Stephen H. Schneider, Kristin Kuntz-Duriseti -- Ocean thermal lag and comparative dynamics of damage to agriculture from global warming / Darwin C. Hall -- Complexity in organizations : consequences for climate policy analysis / Stephen J. DeCanio, William E. Watkins, Glenn Mitchell, Keyvan Amir-Atefi, Catherine Dibble -- Technology and greenhouse gas emissions : an integrated scenario analysis using the LBNL-NEMS model / Jonathan G. Koomey, R. Cooper Richey, Skip Laitner, Robert J. Markel, Chris Marnay -- Prices versus policy : which path to clean technology? / Eban Goodstein -- Energy efficiency and petroleum depletion in climate change policy / Neha Khanna, Duane Chapman -- The clean development mechanism and its controversies / Larry Karp, Xuemei Liu -- Overlapping generations versus infinitely-lived agent : the case of global warming / R. Gerlagh, B.C.C. van der Zwaan -- Climate rights and economic modeling / Richard B. Howarth -- Evaluating regional adaptation to climate change : the case of California water / Brent M. Haddad, Kimberly Merritt -- Climate variability and climate change : implications for agriculture / Richard M. Adams, C.C. Chen, Bruce A. McCarl, David E. Schimmelpfennig. - This volume will include scenarios of geophysical and economic impacts from global warming beyond a doubling of greenhouse gases. Analyses will examine geophysical, ecological, and economic impacts, physical and institutional lags, alternative scenarios with and without policy intervention, institutional change, political-economic barriers to effective policy, and prescriptions for change. Perspectives will include those from physical and biological sciences, as well as economics
This volume will include scenarios of geophysical and economic impacts from global warming beyond a doubling of greenhouse gases. Analyses will examine geophysical, ecological, and economic impacts, physical and institutional lags, alternative scenarios with and without policy intervention, institutional change, political-economic barriers to effective policy, and prescriptions for change. Perspectives will include those from physical and biological sciences, as well as economics
