The political economy of policy reform
This volume collects the papers from a conference in honor of J. Michael Finger on the occasion of his retirement from the World Bank. The papers cover a number of important issues in the analysis of policy reform and the political economy of policy reform. In particular, papers focus on the political economy of trade liberalization, the role of international agencies in policy reform, policy learning, and the application of economic analysis in policy reform
The political economy of policy reform : the origins and dynamics of policy improvement / Douglas Nelson -- 'Steeling' house votes at low prices for the steel import quota bill of 1999 / Edward Tower -- The Madison paradox and the low cost of reducing special-interest legislation / Stephen P. Magee -- Executive-congressional collaboration for trade liberalization or games legislators play / I. M. Mac Destler -- The role of the world bank in the transfer of policy knowledge on trade liberalisation / Doug Nelson -- Tax credits and welfare for working families : a case study of policy transfer / David Greenaway -- The WTO and development / Alessandro Turrini -- Coherence with no 'here' : WTO co-operation with the world bank and the IMF / L. Alan Winters -- Pros and cons of linking trade and labor standards / Robert M. Stern -- J. Michael Finger and the Doha development agenda / Bernard Hoekman -- Unequal exchange : developing countries in the international trade negotiations / Julio J. Nogues -- Can industrial policy be good policy? / Jeffrey A. Hart -- Equitable and efficient international schemes to control carbon dioxide emissions / Emilson C. D. Silva -- General equilibrium studies of multilateral trade negotiations : do they really help? / Joseph Francois. - This volume collects the papers from a conference in honor of J. Michael Finger on the occasion of his retirement from the World Bank. The papers cover a number of important issues in the analysis of policy reform and the political economy of policy reform. In particular, papers focus on the political economy of trade liberalization, the role of international agencies in policy reform, policy learning, and the application of economic analysis in policy reform
