Research in economic anthropology : Vol. 21
The general theme of Social Dimensions in the Economic Process is an old one in economic anthropology. On the abstract end it involves, first, the degree of social content of individual transactions and, second, how economic processes relate to social structure. More specifically, the theme relates to matters such as the need for trust resulting in personalized systems of economic transactions, and how institutions shape economic arrangements. In five parts, the first two parts deal with the social content and consequences of economic relations. Parts III and IV address particular institutions, the household and agrarian relations. The volume ends in Part V with chapters linked to globalization
Introduction / Norbert Dannhaeuser, Cynthia Werner -- The curse of the modern : a Post Keynesian critique of the gift/exchange dichotomy / Colin Danby -- Rational choice, culture change, and fisheries management in the gulf of Maine / James M. Acheson -- Regulating women and managing men : regimes of control on Languedoc family enterprises / Winnie Lem -- A socioeconomic profile of Yucatec Maya families in migrating and non-migrating households / Sandra Weinstein Bever -- Sharecroppers in central Mexico (1930) / Phyllis M. Correa -- Conflicting resource balues : Cabolclos / Gay M. Biery-Hamilton -- Global economics in the creation and maintenance of the Spanish colonial empire / Russell K. Skowronek -- Globalization and retail development in the post-disaster context : a comparison of two Philippine communities / Ty S. Matejowsky -- Will the real commodity please stand up? Skiing and "touristic" real estate in Eagle Valley, Colorado / Sarah Hautzinger -- Social relations in lieu of capital / Massimo Repetti -- Selling strategies and social relations among mobile Maya handicrafts vendors / Walter E. Little -- Carcass ownership and meat distribution by big-game cooperative hunters / Michael S. Alvard. - The general theme of Social Dimensions in the Economic Process is an old one in economic anthropology. On the abstract end it involves, first, the degree of social content of individual transactions and, second, how economic processes relate to social structure. More specifically, the theme relates to matters such as the need for trust resulting in personalized systems of economic transactions, and how institutions shape economic arrangements. In five parts, the first two parts deal with the social content and consequences of economic relations. Parts III and IV address particular institutions, the household and agrarian relations. The volume ends in Part V with chapters linked to globalization
