Choice in economic contexts : ethnographic and theoretical enquiries
Migration in times of globalization : the central valleys of Oaxaca, Mexico / Martha Woodson Rees -- Social conditions of foreign laborers in a meatpacking factory in rural Southern Taiwan / Winston Tseng -- To hire an Albanian : household economy and immigration in rural Greece / Christopher Lawrence -- This is different, this is the plaza : space, gender, and tactics in the work of Moroccan tourist sector henna artisans / Patricia L. Kelly Spurles -- Economic anthroplogy Of Bangkok Go-Go bars : risk and opportunity in a bazaar-type market for interpersonally embedded services / Junpei Ichinosawa -- Transnational consumer goods corporations in Egypt : reaching towards the mass market / Michaela Kehrer -- Conceptualizations of death in a commercial context : the funeral business in present-day Japan / Daisuke Tanaka -- The effect of infrastructure development on fictive kin choice patterns in rural Paraguay / Christina Turner -- Way(c)Øuu crafts : a dilemma of culture and development / Andr(c)Øes Marroqu(c)Øin Gramajo -- Karl Polanyi On The Limitations Of Formalism In Economics / James Ronald Stanfield, Michael C. Carroll, and Mary V. Wrenn -- Choice and the substantivist/formalist debate : a formal presentation of three substantivist criticisms / Justin A. Elardo and Al Campbell -- The end of potlatch : an anthropological approach to Nostromo / Tam(c)Øa Juh(c)Øasz. - This 25th volume in the Research in Economic Anthropology series contains 12 original papers, nine empirical ethnographic studies and three theoretical essays - all linked by a common concern with economic choice in various social and cultural situations, and authored by researchers in anthropology, economics, and sociology. The ethnographic studies present data collected in Mexico, Paraguay, Columbia, Greece, Morocco, Egypt, Thailand, Taiwan, and Japan. Part I of the volume focuses on work migration, a theme that has received much attention of late. Papers in Part II are concerned with various manifestations of markets and market forces in everyday life, and associated individual, group, or corporate action. Part III consists of studies on economic development, market expansion, and community-wide impacts in Latin America. Finally, papers in Part IV share a common concern with the works of noted economic historian Karl Polanyi, which have influenced researchers in economic anthropology, economics, and sociology in many different ways. The research is global in scope and includes European, Asian, African, and American countries. Special attention is given to Latin American countries and the work of economic historian Karl Polanyi
This 25th volume in the Research in Economic Anthropology series contains 12 original papers, nine empirical ethnographic studies and three theoretical essays - all linked by a common concern with economic choice in various social and cultural situations, and authored by researchers in anthropology, economics, and sociology. The ethnographic studies present data collected in Mexico, Paraguay, Columbia, Greece, Morocco, Egypt, Thailand, Taiwan, and Japan. Part I of the volume focuses on work migration, a theme that has received much attention of late. Papers in Part II are concerned with various manifestations of markets and market forces in everyday life, and associated individual, group, or corporate action. Part III consists of studies on economic development, market expansion, and community-wide impacts in Latin America. Finally, papers in Part IV share a common concern with the works of noted economic historian Karl Polanyi, which have influenced researchers in economic anthropology, economics, and sociology in many different ways. The research is global in scope and includes European, Asian, African, and American countries. Special attention is given to Latin American countries and the work of economic historian Karl Polanyi
