Industrial organization
Output price and markup dispersion in micro data : the roles of producer heterogeneity and noise / Mark J. Roberts, Dylan Supina -- Strategic vertical contracting with endogenous number of downstream divisions / Kamal Saggi, Nikolaos Vettas -- Why people buy liability insurance under the rule of simple negligence / Keith J. Crocker, Neil Doherty -- Behavior-based price discrimination and consumer switching / Maria Arbatskaya -- Transaction-cost economics and the organization of agricultural transactions / Scott E. Masten -- A strategic search model of technology adoption and policy / Heidrun C. Hoppe -- Applying the rule of reason to maximum resale price fixing : Albrecht / Roger D. Blair, James M. Fesmire, Richard Romano -- Rigid monopoly prices / Mark Stegeman -- Minimum quality standards in a horizontally differentiated market / John W. Maxwell -- Strategic delegation in cournot oligopoly with incomplete information / Guido Merzoni -- Quotas and tariffs with endogenous conduct / Raymond J. Deneckere, Dan Kovenock, Yong Yeop Sohn -- Strategic advertising and pricing in e-commerce / Dale O. Stahl. - Volume 9 is entitled Industrial Organization and is the ninth volume in the series Advances in Applied Microeconomics. This series provides a forum in which researchers may disseminate frontier research in applied microeconomics to include both theoretical and empirical contributions in applied areas such as industrial organization, consumer and producer behavior, public economics, natural resources, and other applied microeconomic fields. Volumes are published along themes and contain theoretical papers that apply state-of-the-art theory to model important real-world phenomenon, as well as empirical papers that examine such phenomenon
Volume 9 is entitled Industrial Organization and is the ninth volume in the series Advances in Applied Microeconomics. This series provides a forum in which researchers may disseminate frontier research in applied microeconomics to include both theoretical and empirical contributions in applied areas such as industrial organization, consumer and producer behavior, public economics, natural resources, and other applied microeconomic fields. Volumes are published along themes and contain theoretical papers that apply state-of-the-art theory to model important real-world phenomenon, as well as empirical papers that examine such phenomenon
