Anthropological perspectives on economic development and integration
Mixed responses to neo-liberalism : questioning sustainable development as a remedy to free trade and global capitalism in oaxaca, mexico / Catherine Newling -- Fragmented solidarity : commercial farming and rice marketing in an experimental Japanese village / Donald C Wood -- Labour and technological discipline : chaos and order in a russian textile company / Claudio Morrison -- Does privatisation mean commoditisation? Market exchange, barter, and gift giving in post-socialist Mongolia / Peter Finke -- Production matters : consumerism and global capitalism in Vietnam / Elizabeth F Vann -- New inequalities : changing Maya economy and social life in central Quintana Roo, Mexico / Ueli Hostettler -- Fetishism and hau / Elizabeth Emma Ferry -- Fluid signs of commodity fetishism : the cosmologies of Coca-cola and Tesguino / Kalman Applbaum, Jerome M Levi -- Class-based social networks in regional economic systems / Eric C Jones -- The social organization of intention: sacred giving and its implications for Burmas political economy / Ingrid Jordt -- Catch the cranberry wave : Ocean Sprays role as an important social and economic institution / Barbara K Jones -- "Children are the wealth of the poor." Pronatalism and the economic utility of children in Jean Rabel, Haiti / Timothy T Schwartz. - The collection of original contributions in this volume of Research in Economic Anthropology addresses two recurrent themes in economic anthropology. These are the process of economic development and the basis on which economic integration takes place. The development theme is divided between papers that are concerned with the social and demographic impact of development, and those that examine the recent post-socialist transition. The integration theme is represented by articles that examine the symbolic foundations of economic integration, and by contributions that focus on the moral basis of integration and continuity. With respect to both themes theoretical issues are discussed, and detailed ethnographic cases are drawn from Asia, Europe, Russia, Latin America, and the U.S
The collection of original contributions in this volume of Research in Economic Anthropology addresses two recurrent themes in economic anthropology. These are the process of economic development and the basis on which economic integration takes place. The development theme is divided between papers that are concerned with the social and demographic impact of development, and those that examine the recent post-socialist transition. The integration theme is represented by articles that examine the symbolic foundations of economic integration, and by contributions that focus on the moral basis of integration and continuity. With respect to both themes theoretical issues are discussed, and detailed ethnographic cases are drawn from Asia, Europe, Russia, Latin America, and the U.S
