Developing equitable education systems
"Developing Equitable Education Systems This book focuses on the need to develop education systems that are able to overcome the impact of social disadvantage. It provides a practical base for educators and practitioners to develop their individual ways of working and to create a sense of equity within their particular school context. As Government policy moves to extend the diversity of provision within school systems, this book encourages a whole school reform that will avoid the fragmentation of school systems, avoiding the creation of a situation whereby the improvement of one school leads to a decline in the performance of others. At an important time in global, political and educational change, this informative book will be an invaluable aid to anyone researching or working with education policy and politics. It will greatly interest anyone involved with the sociology of education as well as those professionals in organizations and companies guiding the future of education"-- Provided by publisher
"This book focuses on the need to develop education systems that are able to overcome the impact of social disadvantage. It asks why, despite years of reform the poorest children are still not well served by the education system, and by and large attend the lowest-performing schools. Working with a community of schools in one Local Education Authority in England over four years, this team of high-profile, internationally renowned researchers throws light on the challenges of driving the school system into a more equitable direction.Throughout this book, the advantages of an inquiry based approach to educational systems are explored. Whilst this has been found to be effective in individual schools, its use as a strategy for system change is problematic within current policy contexts. With this in mind, the authors analyse the nature of these difficulties in order to formulate proposals for moving education systems in a more equitable direction. "Developing Equitable Education Systems" focuses on the idea that a sense of fairness, however ill-defined, is a powerful starting point for schools to enquire into their own practice and provision. It provides a practical base for educators and practitioners to develop their individual ways of working and to create a sense of equity within their particular school context. As Government policy moves to extend the diversity of provision within school systems, this book encourages a whole school reform that will avoid the fragmentation of school systems, avoiding the creation of a situation whereby the improvement of one school leads to a decline in the performance of others. At an important time in global, political and educational change, this informative book will be an invaluable aid to anyone researching or working with education policy and politics. It will greatly interest anyone involved with the sociology of education as well as those professionals in organizations and companies guiding the future of education"-- Provided by publisher
