Introduction to the physics of waves
"Balancing concise mathematical analysis with the real-world examples and practical applications that inspire students, this textbook provides a clear and approachable introduction to the physics of waves. The author shows through a broad approach how wave phenomena can be observed in a variety of physical situations and explains how their characteristics are linked to specific physical rules, from Maxwell's equations to Newton's laws of motion. Building on the logic and simple physics behind each phenomenon, the book draws on everyday, practical applications of wave phenomena, ranging from electromagnetism to oceanography, helping to engage students and connect core theory with practice. Mathematical derivations are kept brief and textual commentary provides a non-mathematical perspective. Optional sections provide more examples along with higher-level analyses and discussion. This textbook introduces the physics of wave phenomena in a refreshingly approachable way, making it ideal for first- and second-year undergraduate students in the physical sciences"--
"Balancing concise mathematical analysis with the real-world examples and practical applications that inspire students, this textbook provides a clear and approachable introduction to the physics of waves. The author shows through a broad approach how wave phenomena can be observed in a variety of physical situations and explains how their characteristics are linked to specific physical rules, from Maxwell's equations to Newton's laws of motion. Building on the logic and simple physics behind each phenomenon, the book draws on everyday, practical applications of wave phenomena, ranging from electromagnetism to oceanography, helping to engage students and connect core theory with practice. Mathematical derivations are kept brief and textual commentary provides a non-mathematical perspective. Optional sections provide more examples along with higher-level analyses and discussion. This textbook introduces the physics of wave phenomena in a refreshingly approachable way, making it ideal for first and second-year undergraduate students in the physical sciences"--
