XML Retrieval
Documents usually have a content and a structure. The content refers to the text of the document, whereas the structure refers to how a document is logically organized. An increasingly common way to encode the structure is through the use of a mark-up language. Nowadays, the most widely used mark-up language for representing structure is the eXtensible Mark-up Language (XML). XML can be used to provide a focused access to documents, i.e. returning XML elements, such as sections and paragraphs, instead of whole documents in response to a query. Such focused strategies are of particular benefit for information repositories containing long documents, or documents covering a wide variety of topics, where users are directed to the most relevant content within a document.The increased adoption of XML to represent a document structure requires the development of tools to effectively access documents marked-up in XML. This book provides a detailed description of query languages, indexing strategies, ranking algorithms, presentation scenarios developed to access XML documents. Major advances in XML retrieval were seen from 2002 as a result of INEX, the Initiative for Evaluation of XML Retrieval. INEX, also described in this book, provided test sets for evaluating XML retrieval effectiveness. Many of the developments and results described in this book were investigated within INEX
Introduction -- Basic XML concepts -- Element -- Well-formed XML document -- Document type declaration -- XML schema -- XML documents as trees -- Historical perspectives -- Structured document retrieval -- Passage retrieval -- Structured text retrieval -- Hypertext and web retrieval -- Data- vs document-centric XML documents -- Querying semi-structured data -- Content-oriented XML retrieval -- INitiative for the evaluation of XML retrieval (INEX) -- Focused retrieval -- Query languages -- Structural constraints -- Classification of XML query languages -- Content-only -- Content-and-structure -- Examples of XML query languages -- XPath -- NEXI -- XQuery -- XQuery full-text -- Discussion -- Indexing strategies -- Element-based indexing -- Leaf-only indexing -- Aggregation-based indexing -- Selective indexing -- Distributed indexing -- Structure indexing -- Discussion -- Ranking strategies -- Element scoring -- Contextualization -- Propagation -- Aggregation -- Merging -- Processing structural constraints -- Discussion -- Presentation strategies -- Dealing with overlaps -- Presenting elements in context -- Entry points -- Discussion -- Evaluating XML retrieval effectiveness -- Document collections -- Topics -- Relevance assessments -- Retrieval tasks -- Measures -- Discussion -- Conclusions -- XML element retrieval -- Beyond XML element retrieval -- Beyond XML retrieval -- Bibliography -- Biography
