Geographies of the super-rich
"'Globalization, it seems, has propelled the worlds uber-wealthy to new heights of power and money, with tremendous repercussions for the other 99.9 percent of us. At a time when neoliberalism has propelled the world into a new Gilded Age, with rising inequality everywhere, an aggressive class war being waged by the wealthy, and billionaires inserting themselves bluntly into the political arena, understanding the behavior and spatiality of the super-rich has acquired a pressing urgency. This volume offers a richly textured suite of essays concerning how the super-rich have restructured local places, transforming landscapes as varied as London and Kentucky, Ireland and St. Barts, as well as domains as varied as art, thoroughbred horses, and housing.'--Barney Warf, University of Kansas, USA. 'The worlds super-rich, made up of just 11 million people, have access to about US$42.0 trillion of wealth. These are people who each have a spare million of 'liquid' wealth. Their wealth is roughly equal to two thirds of global GDP. They own most of everything. As the editor of this books states ". . . library shelves and the pages of journals remain largely devoid of geographical work on the super-rich a startling lacuna this volume sets out to fill". The super-rich now own most of the planet. During the last year their share fell slightly. Times may be changing. Now is the time to begin to study the superrich in detail, especially if you are worried about where all the wealth has gone.'--Danny Dorling, University of Sheffield, UK. This timely and path-breaking book brings together a group of distinguished and emerging international scholars to critically consider the geographical implications of the worlds super-rich, a privileged yet remarkably overlooked group. Emerging from this unique collection is an enlightening picture of the influence of the super-rich over a diverse range of affairs, extending from the shape of urban and rural landscapes to the future of art history. By concentrating on those at the apex of the economic pyramid, this book provides valuable insights to the institutions, practices and cultural values of our society, as well as allowing us a more comprehensive view of the consequences of global capitalism. Presenting case studies from across the globe from Singapore to St Barts, London to Lexington the spatial and cultural span of the book is wide-ranging and diverse. This truly unique book will prove a fascinating read for academics, researcher ...
