Groundwater science
"2014 Textbook Excellence Award--2nd or Later Edition, Text and Academic Authors Association. Groundwater Science, Second Edition--winner of a 2014 Textbook Excellence Award (Texty) from The Text and Academic Authors Association--covers groundwater's role in the hydrologic cycle and in water supply, contamination, and construction issues. It is a valuable resource for students and instructors in the geosciences (with focuses in hydrology, hydrogeology, and environmental science), and as a reference work for professional researchers. This interdisciplinary text weaves important methods and applications from the disciplines of physics, chemistry, mathematics, geology, biology, and environmental science, introducing you to the mathematical modeling and contaminant flow of groundwater. New to the Second Edition: New chapter on subsurface heat flow and geothermal systems -- Expanded content on well construction and design, surface water hydrology, groundwater/ surface water interaction, slug tests, pumping tests, and mounding analysis. -- Updated discussions of groundwater modeling, calibration, parameter estimation, and uncertainty -- Free software tools for slug test analysis, pumping test analysis, and aquifer modeling -- Lists of key terms and chapter contents at the start of each chapter -- Expanded end-of-chapter problems, including more conceptual questions. Winner of a 2014 Texty Award from the Text and Academic Authors Association -- Features two-color figures -- Includes homework problems at the end of each chapter and worked examples throughout -- Provides a companion website with videos of field exploration and contaminant migration experiments, PDF files of USGS reports, and data files for homework problems -- Offers PowerPoint slides and solution manual for adopting faculty."--Publisher's description
Groundwater Science, 2E, covers groundwater's role in the hydrologic cycle and in water supply, contamination, and construction issues. It is a valuable resource for students and instructors in the geosciences (with focuses in hydrology, hydrogeology, and environmental science), and as a reference work for professional researchers. This interdisciplinary text weaves important methods and applications from the disciplines of physics, chemistry, mathematics, geology, biology, and environmental science, introducing you to the mathematical modeling and contaminant flow of groundwater. New to the Second Edition:. New chapter on subsurface heat flow and geothermal systems. Expanded content on well construction and design, surface water hydrology, groundwater/ surface water interaction, slug tests, pumping tests, and mounding analysis.. Updated discussions of groundwater modeling, calibration, parameter estimation, and uncertainty. Free software tools for slug test analysis, pumping test analysis, and aquifer modeling. Lists of key terms and chapter contents at the start of each chapter. Expanded end-of-chapter problems, including more conceptual questions. Two-color figures. Homework problems at the end of each chapter and worked examples throughout. Companion website with videos of field exploration and contaminant migration experiments, PDF files of USGS reports, and data files for homework problems. PowerPoint slides and solution manual for adopting faculty
