Decoded : the science behind why we buy
Mostly, we use  purchase products without even thinking.In this book, Phil Barden shows how the hidden levels of consumption work, and what happens in the brain when we decide on a particular product. The secret codes of products are unlocked using the latest findings from neuro-psychology. We discover why we buy them and how we use them.The author shows how relevance, differentiation and credibility in the marketing of products can be significantly raised. At the same time, the bookshows how exasperating and subjective debates and discussions on advertising, pack and product design can be replaced by strategic decisions which will lead to far more efficient Marketing.This is the first time that buying behaviour has been so clearly explained by showing how codes are the link between neuropsychological goals and the products and services that we choose in order to create top-selling products.
In this groundbreaking book Phil Barden reveals what decision science explains about people's purchase behaviour, and specifically demonstrates its value to marketing. He shares the latest research on the motivations behind consumers' choices and what happens in the human brain as buyers make their decisions. He deciphers the 'secret codes' of products, services and brands to explain why people buy them. And finally he shows how to apply this knowledge in day to day marketing to great effect by dramatically improving key factors such as relevance, differentiation and credibility. - Shows how the latest insights from the fields of Behavioural Economics, psychology and neuro-economics explain why we buy what we buy - Offers a pragmatic framework and guidelines for day-to-day marketing practice on how to employ this knowledge for more effective brand management - from strategy to implementation and NPD. - The first book to apply Daniel Kahneman's Nobel Prize-winning work to marketing and advertising - Packed with case studies, this is a must-read for marketers, advertising professionals, web designers, R & D managers, industrial designers, graphic designers in fact anyone whose role or interest focuses on the 'why' behind consumer behaviour. - Foreword by Rory Sutherland, Executive Creative Director and Vice-Chairman, OgilvyOne London and Vice-Chairman, Ogilvy Group UK - Full colour throughout
