The future of social movement research : dynamics, mechanisms, and processes
" Are the dynamics of contention changing? This is the question confronted by the contributors of this volume, some of the most influential scholars in the field of social movements. The answers, arriving at a time of extraordinary worldwide turmoil, not only provide a wide-ranging and varied understanding of how social movements arise and persist, but also engender unanswered questions, pointing to new theoretical strands and fields of research. The Future of Social Movement Research asks: How are the dynamics of contention shaped by globalization? By societies that are becoming increasingly more individualized and diverse? By the spread of new communication technologies such as social media, cell phones, and the Internet? Why do some movements survive while others dissipate? Do local and global networks differ in nature? The authors' essays explore such questions with reference to changes in three domains of contention: the demand of protest (changes in grievances and identities), the supply of protest (changes in organizations and networks), and how these changes affect the dynamics of mobilization. In doing so, they theorize and make empirically insightful how globalization, individualization, and virtualization create new grievances, new venues for action, new action forms, and new structures of contention. The resulting work--brought together through engaging discussions and debates between the contributors--is interdisciplinary and unusually broad in scope, constituting the most comprehensive overview of the dynamics of social movements available today. Contributors: Marije Boekkooi, VU-U, Amsterdam; Pang Ching Bobby Chen, U of California, Merced; Donatella della Porta, European U Institute; Mario Diani, U of Trento, Italy; Jan Willem Duyvendak, U of Amsterdam; Myra Marx Ferree, U of Wisconsin-Madison; Beth Gharrity Gardner; Ashley Gromis; Swen Hutter, U of Munich; Ruud Koopmans, WZB, Berlin; Hanspeter Kriesi, U of Zurich; Nonna Mayer, National Centre for European Studies; Doug McAdam, Stanford U; John D. McCarthy, Pennsylvania State U; Debra Minkoff, Barnard College, Columbia U; Alice Motes; Pamela E. Oliver, U of Wisconsin-Madison; Francesca Polletta, U of California, Irvine; Jacomijne Prins, VU-U, Amsterdam; Patrick Rafail, Tulane U; Christopher Rootes, U of Kent, Canterbury; Dieter Rucht, Free U of Berlin; David A. Snow, U of California, Irvine; Sarah A. Soule, Stanford U; Suzanne Staggenborg, U of Pittsburgh; Sidney Tarrow, Cornell U; Verta Taylor, U of California, Santa Barbara; Marjoka van Doorn; Martijn van Zomeren, U of Groningen; Stefaan Walgrave, U of Antwerp; Saskia Welschen. "--
Machine generated contents note: -- Contents -- Acknowledgments -- Introduction: The Changing Dynamics of Contention -- Jacquelien van Stekelenburg and Conny Roggeband -- Part I. Grievances and Identities: The Demand Side of Participation -- 1. The Dynamics of Demand -- Bert Klandermans -- 2. Is the Internet Creating New Reasons to Protest? -- Francesca Polletta, Pang Ching Bobby Chen, Beth Gharrity Gardner, and Alice Motes -- 3. Social Movement Participation in the Global Society: Identity, Networks, and Emotions -- Verta Taylor -- 4. "Protest against whom?": The Role of Collective Meaning Making in Politicization -- Marjoka van Doorn, Jacomijne Prins, and Saskia Welschen -- Discussion: Opening the Black Box of Dynamics in Theory and Research on the Demand Side of Protest -- Martijn van Zomeren -- Part II. Organizations and Networks: The Supply Side of Contention -- 5. The Changing Supply Side of Mobilization: Questions for Discussion -- Conny Roggeband and Jan Willem Duyvendak -- 6. Bringing Organizational Studies Back into Social Movement Scholarship -- Sarah A. Soule -- 7. Organization and Community in Social Movements -- Suzanne Staggenborg -- 8. Organizational Fields and Social Movement Dynamics -- Mario Diani -- 9. Social Movement Structures in Action: Conceptual Propositions and Empirical Illustration -- Dieter Rucht -- Discussion: The Changing Supply Side of Mobilization: Impressions on a Theme -- Debra Minkoff -- Part III. Dynamics of Mobilization -- 10. Changing Mobilization of Individual Activists? -- Stefaan Walgrave -- 11. Mobilizing for Change in a Changing Society -- Jacquelien van Stekelenburg and Marije Boekkooi -- 12. Ethnicity, Repression, and Fields of Action in Movement Mobilization -- Pamela E. Oliver -- 13. Identity Dilemmas, Discursive Fields, Identity Work, and Mobilization: Clarifying the Identity/Movement Nexus -- David A. Snow -- 14. Movements of the Left, Movements of the Right Reconsidered -- Swen Hutter and Hanspeter Kriesi -- Discussion: Mobilization and the Changing and Persistent Dynamics of Political Participation -- Christopher Rootes -- Part IV. The Changing Context of Contention -- 15. The End of the Social Movement as We Know It?: Adaptive Challenges in Changed Contexts -- Ruud Koopmans -- 16. Social Movements and Elections: Toward a Broader Understanding of the Political Context of Contention -- Doug McAdam and Sidney Tarrow -- 17. Social Movements, Power, and Democracy: New Challenges, New Challengers, New Theories? -- Donatella della Porta -- 18. Recent Trends in Public Protest in the U.S.A.: The Social Movement Society Thesis Revisited -- John D. McCarthy, Patrick Rafail, and Ashley Gromis -- 19. The "Contentious French" Revisited -- Nonna Mayer -- Discussion: Meaning and Movements in the New Millennium: Gendering Democracy -- Myra Marx Ferree -- Afterword -- Bert Klandermans -- Contributors -- Index
