Modelling and Control of Robot Manipulators
Fundamental and technological topics are blended uniquely and developed clearly in nine chapters - with a gradually increasing level of complexity. A wide variety of relevant problems is raised throughout, and the proper tools to find engineering-oriented solutions are introduced and explained, step by step. Fundamental coverage includes kinematics, statics and dynamics of manipulators, and trajectory planning and motion control in free space. Technological aspects include actuators, sensors, hardware- and software-control architectures and industrial robot-control algorithms. Furthermore, established research results involving description of end-effector orientation, closed kinematic chains, kinematic redundancy and singularities, dynamic parameter identification, robust and adaptive control, and force and motion control are provided. To provide readers with a homogeneous background, three appendices are included on linear algebra, rigid-body mechanics, and feedback control. To impart practical skill, more than 50 examples and case studies are carefully worked out and interwoven through the text, with frequent resort to simulation. In addition, more than 80 end-of-chapter exercises are proposed, and the book is accompanied by a solutions manual containing the MATLAB® code for computer problems; this is available from the publisher free of charge to those adopting this volume as a textbook for courses. "The book has an excellent balance of practical and advanced material (explanations, examples and problems) that take the introductory student to the level that useful research or applications can begin." Wayne Book, Georgia Institute of Technology "Because of its modern treatment and its excellent breadth, "Modelling and Control of Robot Manipulators" is the required text for our core course in the Robotics Ph.D. Program." Matt Mason, Carnegie Mellon University "Sciavicco and Sicilliano’s book achieves a good balance between simplicity and rigour. It is a comprehensive and excellent reference on robotic manipulators, with easy-to-follow notation and figures, lots of examples and a complete bibliography. I strongly recommend it!" Tim Salcudean, University of British Columbia "This is the ultimate reference book in robotics, perfectly balanced between educational scopes and introductory research." Alessandro De Luca, Universita di Roma "La Sapienza
