Wireless ad hoc and sensor networks : management, performance, and applications
"Preface Wireless sensor networks are being employed in a variety applications ranging from medical to military, and from home to industry. There is no recent book emphasizing the algorithm description, performance analysis, and applications of the network management techniques in wireless sensor networks. The principal aim of this book is to provide a reference tool for the increasing number of scientists who depend upon sensor networks in some way. The book summarizes not only the traditional and classical network management techniques, but also the state-of-art techniques in this area. The book is organized into three sections, each including chapters exploring a specific topic. The articles presented in the book are expository, but of a scholarly nature, including the appropriate history background, a review of the state-of-the-art thinking relative to the topic, as well as a discussion of unsolved problems that are of special interest. The target readers of this book include the researchers in computer science, computer engineering, and applied mathematics, as well as students in these subjects. Specialists as well as general readers will find the articles stimulating and helpful. Book Organization The book is organized into three sections. Section I introduces the basic concepts of wireless sensor networks (WSNs) and their applications, followed by the summarization of the network management techniques used in WSNs. Section II reviews the literature of the virtual backbone-based network management techniques. Because there are some drawbacks of the classical and existing methods, we propose several new network management techniques for WSNs and analyze their performance subsequently"--
"Although wireless sensor networks (WSNs) have been employed across a wide range of applications, there are very few books that emphasize the algorithm description, performance analysis, and applications of network management techniques in WSNs. Filling this need, Wireless Ad Hoc and Sensor Networks: Management, Performance, and Applications summarizes not only traditional and classical network management techniques, but also state-of-the-art techniques in this area.The articles presented are expository, but scholarly in nature, including the appropriate history background, a review of current thinking on the topic, and a discussion of unsolved problems. The book is organized into three sections. Section I introduces the basic concepts of WSNs and their applications, followed by the summarization of the network management techniques used in WSNs.Section II begins by examining virtual backbone-based network management techniques. It points out some of the drawbacks in classical and existing methods and proposes several new network management techniques for WSNs that can address the shortcomings of existing methods. Each chapter in this section examines a new network management technique and includes an introduction, literature review, network model, algorithm description, theoretical analysis, and conclusion.Section III applies proposed new techniques to some important applications in WSNs including routing, data collection, data aggregation, and query processing. It also conducts simulations to verify the performance of the proposed techniques. Each chapter in this section examines a particular application using the following structure: brief application overview, application design and implementation, performance analysis, simulation settings, and comments for different test cases/scenario configurations"--
