Mobile marketing : how mobile technology is revolutionizing marketing, communications, and advertising
A growing portion of internet traffic is coming from smartphones and tablets. Net Marketshare put mobile's share of global browsing traffic at 10.3% in October 2012. This was the first time mobile had topped 10% of all browsing. In North America, the share of Web traffic from smart phones and tablets was estimated at 28% as of June 2012, with the time spent with mobile growing at 14 times the rate of desktop media.  Although the importance of mobile technologies for marketing communications is widely recognized, the use of proper strategy is not really understood by a lot of marketers. To help determine what marketers can do and should be doing with the exponential growth in mobile device ownership, Daniel Rowles gives practical and hands-on training on how to design, implement and measure an effective digital strategy.  Combining theoretical understanding of mobile's role in the marketing arena and practical exercises, Rowles teaches how to build a top-down strategy, encompassing all consumer touch points, to future-proof businesses against customers' ever-changing mobile interaction with brands.
Having become the ultimate social device, and as users drift away from TVs and computer screens, the mobile offers radical new challenges for the marketer. But how do you design and implement an effective digital strategy? And what tools can be used to measure marketing effectiveness? Starting with a review of the technology itself - both hardware and software - Mobile Marketing explains the dynamics between the key players and how these forces are shaping future developments in terms of service provision, media integration and content strategy. Supported by in-depth case studies, which illustrate the potential pitfalls and rewards of mobile marketing initiatives, Mobile Marketing shows how our new mobile lifestyle can be a rewarding environment for those businesses willing to embrace new technology and, with imagination and creativity, develop mobile marketing strategies that can win customers, boost brand awareness, raise profile and increase profits.
