Linear control system analysis and design with MATLAB
"Thoroughly classroom-tested and proven to be a valuable self-study companion, Linear Control System Analysis and Design: Sixth Edition provides an intensive overview of modern control theory and conventional control system design using in-depth explanations, diagrams, calculations, and tables. Keeping mathematics to a minimum, the book is designed with the undergraduate in mind, first building a foundation, then bridging the gap between control theory and its real-world application. Computer-aided design accuracy checks (CADAC) are used throughout the text to enhance computer literacy. Each CADAC uses fundamental concepts to ensure the viability of a computer solution.Completely updated and packed with student-friendly features, the sixth edition presents a range of updated examples using MATLAB, as well as an appendix listing MATLAB functions for optimizing control system analysis and design. Over 75 percent of the problems presented in the previous edition have been revised or replaced. "--
"Preface On reflection, it should be noted that the foundation of the five editions of this book was the textbook authored by J. J. D'Azzo and C. H. Houpis, Feedback Control System Analysis and Design, published by McGraw-Hill (the first edition in 1960 and the second edition in 1966). The sixth edition, in fact, can be considered to be "eighth edition." This textbook was translated into Spanish and Portuguese and became an international bestseller. In the latter part of the twentieth century, the fourth edition was translated into Chinese. The fundamentals of control theory, as presented in the 1960 edition, have essentially remained the same. It is therefore not surprising that even after 52 years, the publisher felt the need for a new edition to be published. The technological advances that were made during the twentieth century have necessitated the design of advanced control systems in a concurrent engineering design, which requires that control engineers play a central role from the very beginning of the project. Many of today's control system designs are of a multidisciplinary nature that require applying control concepts to understand the interactions of the subsystems in the entire system. They also require coordinating the different disciplines in order to achieve better system dynamics and controllability and optimum design. Further, it also enhances the requirement that future engineering education to emphasize bridging the gap between theory and the real world. The text is divided into five parts: Part I--Introductory Material; Part II--Analog Control Systems; Part III--Compensation--Analog Systems; Part IV--Advanced Topics; and Part V-- Digital Control Systems"--
