Handbook of engineering hydrology / ed. by Saeid Eslamian ; Book 3: Environmental hydrology and water management
"Preface: Hydrological and ecological connectivity is a matter of high concern. All terrestrial and coastal ecosystems are connected with water, which includes groundwater, and there is a growing understanding that 'single ecosystems' (mountain forest, hill forest, mangrove forest, freshwater swamp, peat swamp, tidal mudflat, and coral reef) that are actually the result of an artificial perception and classification can, in the long term, only be managed by a holistic vision at the watershed level. It is essential to investigate ecosystem management at the watershed level, particularly in a changing climate. In general, there are two important approaches: adaption to hydrological events such as climate change, drought, and flood; and  - qualitative and quantitative conservation of water, thereby optimizing water consumption. The Handbook of Engineering Hydrology aims to fill the two-decade gap since the publication of David Maidment's Handbook of Hydrology in 1993 by including updated material on hydrology science and engineering. It provides an extensive coverage of hydrological engineering, science, and technology and includes novel topics that were developed in the last two decades. This handbook is not a replacement for Maidment's work, but as mentioned, it focuses on innovation and provides updated information in the field of hydrology. Therefore, it could be considered as a complementary text to Maidment's work, providing practical guidelines to the reader. Further, this book covers different aspects of hydrology using a new approach, whereas Maidment's work dealt principally with classical components of hydrologic cycle, particularly surface and groundwater and physical and chemical pollution"--
"This comprehensive handbook covers multiple aspects of hydrology with a new approach. Other books on the subject deal mostly with classical aspects of hydrology--particularly surface and ground water, and physical and chemical pollution. This volume covers management topics including water scarcity, water security, water policy and governance, etc. It also highlights the environmental aspects of hydrology such as environmental river flow, environmental nanotechnology, phyto-remediation, and constructed wetlands and it is also authored by experts from over 30 different countries"--
