Handbook of the international political economy of governance
pt. I. The international political economy of governance -- pt. II. The governance of the international political economy
'Certainly one of the most inclusive books in international political economy, which successfully combines a strong and very innovative theoretical investigation with a wonderful diversity of case studies. The book is highly pedagogic and particularly meets the expectations of students and educated persons who are short of updated analysis in this field.'--Bertrand Badie, Sciences Po, France. Since the 1990s many of the assumptions that anchored the study of governance in international political economy (IPE) have been shaken loose. Reflecting on the intriguing and important processes of change that have occurred, and are occurring, Anthony Payne and Nicola Phillips bring together the best research currently being undertaken in the field. They explore the complex ways that the global political economy is presently being governed, and indeed misgoverned. The Handbook is organised into two fresh and original parts. In Part I the authors advance their own distinctive understanding of the international political economy of governance and thus make important contributions to the next phase of scholarship. Considering four key themes, they reflect on the ideological foundations of governance, the levels at which governance is articulated, the actors involved in governance and the ethical questions associated with the subject. Part II addresses the patterns of governance that prevail in particular issue areas. Invited to consider their contributions in the light of the four framing themes set out in Part I, these prominent authors offer key insights into contemporary dynamics in a wide range of issue areas and consider how their insights can be mobilised in refreshing the study of governance. Covering all themes central to the field of politics, this extensive and detailed Handbook will be of great value to students of governance, political economy, international relations and development studies
