Doing anthropology in wartime and war zones : World War I and the cultural sciences in Europe
Biographical note: Reinhard Johler is full professor of European Ethnology at the University of Tübingen and director of the Institute for Danube Swabian History and Culture. Christian Marchetti (M.A.) is a doctoral candidate in European Ethnology at the University of Tübingen. Monique Scheer (Dr. rer. soc.) is a research scholar at the Max Planck Institute for Human Development in Berlin.
Review text: »[The] combination of carefully developed specific points of research and thorough reexamination of paradigmatic theoretical models should make this volume an indispensable reading and an important point of reference for years to come.« Aleksandar Boskovic, Anthropos, 107 (2012) »Der thematisch konzentrierte, aber räumlich weit ausgreifende Sammelband vermittelt einen anschaulichen und differenzierten Überblick über die Bedeutung, die der Erste Weltkrieg für die Herausbildung der Disziplinen Volks-/Völkerkunde (Anthropology) hatte.« Silke Göttsch-Elten, H-Soz-u-Kult, 18.02.2011 »The publication of this scholarly and well-edited volume is commendable. For those who are already familiar with the history of anthropology, this volume will advance their knowledge of anthropology in wartimes and war zones; for those who do not, it will awaken great interest.« Marius Turda, European Association of Social Anthropologists, (2011) Besprochen in: Kwartalnik Historyczny, 2 (2013), Aleksandra Rodziska-Chojnowska
Main description: World War I marks a well-known turning point in anthropology, and this volume is the first to examine the variety of forms it took in Europe. Distinct national traditions emerged and institutes were founded, partly due to collaborations with the military. Researchers in the cultural sciences used war zones to gain access to »informants«: prisoner-of-war and refugee camps, occupied territories, even the front lines. Anthropologists tailored their inquiries to aid the war effort, contributed to interpretations of the war as a »struggle« between »races«, and assessed the »warlike« nature of the Balkan region, whose crises were key to the outbreak of the Great War.
