Natural resources in Afghanistan : geographic and geologic perspectives on centuries of conflict
Natural Resources in Afghanistan: Geographic and Geologic Perspectives on Centuries of Conflict details Afghanistan's physical geography - namely climate, soils, vegetation, water, hazards, and basic geologic background and terrain landforms - together with details of its rich natural resources, ethnic problems, and relevant past histories. The book couples these details with the challenges of environmental degradation and new environmental management and protection, all of which are considered finally in both pessimistic and optimistic modes. The reader comes away with a nuanced understanding of the issues that are likely to have great affect for this pivotal region of the world for decades to come. With an estimated $1-3 trillion dollars of ore in the ground, and multiple cross-reinforcing cancellations of big Asian power machinations (China, India, Iran, Pakistan), Afghanistan has an opportunity to gain more economic independence. At the same time, however, historic forces of negativity also pull it back toward the chaos and uncertainty that has defined the country and constrained its economic progress for decades
Foreword / Thomas Gouttierre -- Preface -- Introduction and historical overview -- PART I. GEOGRAPHY AND GEOLOGY OF AFGHANISTAN. Introduction -- Rock & landform jigsaw puzzles & mosaic -- Terrains of torment -- Soils & vegetation in extremis -- Watersheds of want -- Ethnic patchworks -- Silk road nexus -- Hazards & disasters -- PART II. RESOURCES : BONES OF CONTENTION AND POSSIBLE SOLUTIONS TO INTERMINABLE WAR. Introduction -- Afghanistan border fixing : 19th century -- Lost resource opportunities : 20th century -- Discovery of rich resources : 20th century -- Rich resource exploitation, resource curses, resource wars : 21st century -- Air & space technology in resource delineation, war & peace : 20th-21st centuries -- Resource rushes in Afghanistan -- Resource corridors -- PART III. AFGHANISTAN ENVIRONMENT & DEVELOPMENT. Introduction -- Afghanistan environment and development issues -- Afghanistan environmental degradation -- Afghanistan environmental protection -- Afghanistan water and climate change -- PART IV. AFGHANISTAN IN FUTURE. Introduction -- Pessimistic scenarios : incessant war in Afghanistan -- Optimistic scenarios : resource corridor success. - Natural Resources in Afghanistan: Geographic and Geologic Perspectives on Centuries of Conflict details Afghanistan's physical geography - namely climate, soils, vegetation, water, hazards, and basic geologic background and terrain landforms - together with details of its rich natural resources, ethnic problems, and relevant past histories. The book couples these details with the challenges of environmental degradation and new environmental management and protection, all of which are considered finally in both pessimistic and optimistic modes. The reader comes away with a nuanced understanding of the issues that are likely to have great affect for this pivotal region of the world for decades to come. With an estimated $1-3 trillion dollars of ore in the ground, and multiple cross-reinforcing cancellations of big Asian power machinations (China, India, Iran, Pakistan), Afghanistan has an opportunity to gain more economic independence. At the same time, however, historic forces of negativity also pull it back toward the chaos and uncertainty that has defined the country and constrained its economic progress for decades
