The handbook of crisis communication
Parameters for crisis communication / W. Timothy Coombs -- Crisis communication and its allied fields / W. Timothy Coombs -- Crisis communication research in public relations journals: tracking research trends over thirty years / Seon-Kyoung An and I-Huei Cheng -- Organizational networks in disaster response: an examination of the US government network's efforts in Hurricane Katrina / Gabriel L. Adkins -- Regaining altitude: a case analysis of the JetBlue Airways Valentine's Day 2007 crisis / Gregory G. Efthimiou -- The press as agent of cultural repair: a textual analysis of news coverage of the Virginia Tech shootings / Mohamad H. Elmasry and Vidhi Chaudhri -- Are they practicing what we are preaching? an investigation of crisis communication strategies in the media coverage of chemical accidents / Sherry J. Holladay -- Examining the effects of mutability and framing on perceptions of human error and technical error crises: implications for situational crisis communication theory / W. Timothy Coombs and Sherry J. Holladay -- How do past crises affect publics' perceptions of current events? an experiment testing corporate reputation during an adverse event / J. Drew Elliot -- Crisis response effectiveness: methodological considerations for advancement in empirical investigation into response impact / Tomasz A. Fediuk, Kristin M. Pace and Isabel C. Botero -- "We tell people. It's up to them to be prepared." Public relations practices of local emergency managers / Robert Littlefield, Katherine Rowan, Shari R. Veil, Lorraine Kisselburgh, Kimberly Beauchamp, Kathleen Vidoloff, Marie L. Dick, Theresa Russell-Loretz, Induk Kim, Angelica Ruvarac, Quian Wang, Toni Siriko Hoang, Bonita Neff, Teri Toles-Patkin, Rod Troester, Shama Hyder, Steven Venette and Timothy L. Sellnow -- Thirty common basic elements of crisis management plans: guidelines for handling the acute stage of "hard" emergencies at the tactical level / Alexander G. Nikolaev -- Oil industry crisis communication / Michelle Maresh and David E. Williams -- Educational crisis management practices tentatively embrace the new media / Barbara S. Gainey -- FEMA and the rhetoric of redemption: new directions in crisis communication models for government agencies / Elizabeth Johnson Avery and Ruthann W. Lariscy -- Effective public relations in racially charged crises: not black or white / Brooke Fisher Liu -- Public relations and reputation management in a crisis situation: how Denny's Restaurants reinvigorated the firm's corporate identity / Ali M. Kanso, Steven R. Levitt and Richard Alan Nelson -- New media for crisis communication: opportunities for technical translation, dialogue, and stakeholder responses / Keri K. Stephens and Patty Malone -- Organizational and media use of technology during fraud crises / Christopher Caldiero, Maureen Taylor and Lia Ungureanu -- Organizational use of new communication technology in product recall crises / Maureen Taylor -- Crisis communication, complexity, and the cartoon affair: a case study / Finn Frandsen and Winni Johansen -- Crisis communication and terrorist attacks: framing a response to the 2004 Madrid bombings and 2005 London bombings / María José Canel and Karen Sanders -- Negotiating global citizenship: Mattel's 2007 recall crisis / Patricia A. Curtin -- Celebrating expulsions? Crisis communication in the Swedish migration board / Orla Vigsø -- Crisis communicators in change: from plans to improvisations / Jesper Falkheimer and Mats Heide -- Contingency theory of strategic conflict management: directions for the practice of crisis communication from a decade of theory development, discovery, and dialogue / Augustine Pang, Yan Jin and Glen T. Cameron -- Crisis-adaptive public information: a model for reliability in chaos / Suzanne Horsley -- Communicating before a crisis: an exploration of bolstering, CSR, and inoculation practices / Shelley Wigley and Michael Pfau -- Who suffers: the effect of injured party on attributions of crisis responsibility / Sun-A Park and María E. Len-Ríos -- The dialectics of organizational crisis management / Charles Conrad, Jane Stuart Baker, Chris Cudahy and Jennifer Willyard -- Exploring crisis from a receiver perspective: understanding stakeholder reactions during crisis events / Tomasz A. Fediuk, W. Timothy Coombs and Isabel C. Botero -- Credibility seeking through an interorganizational alliance: instigating the Fen-Phen confrontation crisis / Timothy L. Sellnow, Shari R. Veil and Renae A. Streifel -- Future directions of crisis communication research: emotions in crisis: the next frontier / Yan Jin and Augustine Pang -- Complexity and crises: a new paradigm / Dawn R. Gilpin and Priscilla Murphy -- Considering the future of crisis communication research: understanding the opportunities inherent to crisis events through the discourse of renewal / Robert R. Ulmer, Timothy L. Sellnow and Matthew W. Seeger -- Toward a holistic organizational approach to understanding crisis / Maureen Taylor -- What is a public relations "crisis?" refocusing crisis research / Michael L. Kent -- Crisis and learning / Larsåke Larsson -- Pursuing evidence-based crisis communication / W. Timothy Coombs
Written as a tool for both researchers and communication managers, this book examines research, methods, and critical issues in crisis communication. The text includes in-depth analyses of well-known case studies in crisis communication, from terrorist attacks to Hurricane Katrina. It explores the key emerging areas of new technology and global crisis communication and provides a starting point for developing crisis communication as a distinctive research field rather than as a sub-discipline of public relations or corporate communication
