Migration, precarity, and global governance : challenges and opportunities for Labour
Machine generated contents note: 1. Introduction: Migration, Precarity, and Global Governance: Challenges and Opportunities for Labour / Anders Neergaard -- pt. I Migration and the Current Transformation -- 2. Migration and Labour under Neoliberal Globalization: Key Issues and Challenges / Raul Delgado Wise -- 3. Migration, Precarious Work, and Rights: Historical and Current Perspectives / Stephen Castles -- 4. Precarious Work, Immigration, and Governance / Bridget Anderson -- 5. From Denizens to Citizens: Forging a Precariat Charter / Guy Standing -- 6. Globalization, Trade Unions, and Labour Migration: A Transformationalist Approach / Ronaldo Munck -- pt. II Trade Union Trajectories -- 7. Trade Unions and Labour Migration: A Case for New Organizational Approaches / Mary Hyland -- 8. Migration, Racialization, and Forms of Unfree Labour: The Dilemma of Trade Union Solidarity / Anders Neergaard -- 9. Immigrant Workers and the Labour Movement in the USA / Ruth Milkman
Contents note continued: 10. Irregular Migrant Labour, Trade Unions, and Civil Society Organizations in Turkey / Nazh Senses -- 11.A Toxic Embrace: Migration, Labour, and the Rainbow Nation's Neoliberal Pact / Carl-Ulrik Schierup -- pt. III Promises and Disarray of Global Governance -- 12. Labour Rights as Human Rights? Trajectories in the Global Governance of Migration / Carl-Ulrik Schierup -- 13. False Promises and Movements of Contestation in the Global Garment Industry / Sam Maher -- 14. Global Migration Governance, Social Movements, and the Difficulties of Promoting Migrant Rights / Jean Grugel -- 15. Labour, Migration, and Regional Integration: A North/South Comparative Approach / Ronaldo Munck
"Migration, Precarity, & Global Governance explores an understudied, but central, area within contemporary studies of globalisation and precarisation. It relates to the interface between migration, global governance and the role of civil society, with particular focus on the dilemmas and options of trade unions, too often left off the agenda. The volume suggests that the trade union movement is undergoing a fundamental debate about revitalisation, which could play an important role in terms of the economic, political and social integration of migrant workers, with implications for the transformation of contemporary societies in general. The volume adopts an interdisciplinary and comparative approach, emphasizing the complexity of historically grounded social relations. It examines international migration as it is impacted by, and impacts on, globalization, social and political struggles, and the recurring crisis of capitalism. The first part of the book presents five complementary perspectives on the political economy of migration, labour, and citizenship. Part Two offers analyses of the relationship between labour unions and migrant workers. Part Three explores the way trade unions, migrant organisations, and other civil society groupings interact with an incipient global governance regime relating to migration. It also examines issues of state and non-state actors' accountability in relation to human rights claims as well as the impact of the norm of corporate social responsibility."--Publisher's website
