Handbook of diet and nutrition in the menstrual cycle, periconception and fertility
Intro -- Table of contents -- Preface -- Setting the scene -- 1.  Diet and nutrition in fertility: an overview including special requirements with ageing -- J.H. Ford -- 2. Fertility in women -- H. Daabis1 and T.A. Gelbaya2 -- 3.  Psychophysiological changes in the menstrual cycle phases -- M.K.B. Lustyk1,2, E.A. Shilling1, D.L. Reaves1 and C.M. Hokama1 -- Puberty, menarche and the menstrual cycle -- 4.  Age at menarche: international perspectives -- M. Celik -- 5. Menarcheal onset and body composition -- S. Kirchengast -- 6. Calcium intake and premenstrual syndrome -- B.B. Takashima-Uebelhoer and E.R. Bertone-Johnson -- 7.  Diet and eating changes in premenstrual syndrome -- N. Erbil -- 8.  Vitamin D and other nutrients in the treatment of premenstrual syndrome -- F. Cioni1 and F. Ferraroni2 -- 9.  Perimenstrual chocolate craving: from pharmacology and physiology to cognition and culture -- J.M. Hormes -- 10.  The influence of body mass index and socioeconomic status on pubertal development -- A. Bereket and Z. Atay -- 11.  Neuroimaging menstrual cycle associated changes in appetite -- D.A. Van Vugt and R.L. Reid -- 12.  Fluctuations of appetite and food intake during the menstrual cycle -- S.A. Tucci -- 13.  Dietary strategies contributing to low energy availability in exercising women: underlying physiology and impact on the menstrual cycle -- B.R. Hill and N.I. Williams -- 14.  Iodine deficiency: female menstrual cycle to conception -- F. Vermiglio, M. Moleti and F. Trimarchi -- 15. The menstrual cycle and lipid levels -- S.L. Mumford, K.C. Schliep, A. Prasad and E.F. Schisterman -- 16.  Menstrual patterns in adolescents with eating disorders -- A. Deltsidou -- Conception -- 17.  Role of micronutrients in the periconceptional period -- I. Cetin, M. Massari and F. Parisi -- 18.  Prevalence and predictors of periconceptional folic acid use
R.P. Deane and D.J. Murphy -- 19.  Lower fertility associated with periconceptional obesity and underweight -- E. Derbyshire -- 20.  Preconception care and barriers to addressing overweight and obesity: a focus on weight loss advice and weight loss strategies -- M. Dekker Nitert1, H.L. Barrett1, S. de Jersey2, K. Matusiak1, H.D. McIntyre3 and L.K. Callaway1 -- 21. Herbal medicine and fertilisation -- L. Stocker and Y. Cheong -- 22.  Diet containing endocrine-disruptors and reproductive health -- D. Balabanič1 and A. Krivograd Klemenčič2 -- 23.  Anemia, Roux-en-Y gastric bypass and conception -- R.M.Y. Nomura, A.M.K. Igai, R. Pulcineli Vieira Francisco and M. Zugaib -- Fertility-infertility -- 24.  Vitamin D and assisted reproductive technology -- A. Mahdavi1 and H. Hosseini Jadda2 -- 25.  The impact of obesity on ovulation and early pregnancy: a focus on ovarian function, fertilization, implantation and early embryo development -- A. Gonzalez-Bulnes and S. Astiz -- 26.  Nutraceutical approaches in female infertility: setting the rationale for treatments tailored to the patient's phenotype and based on selected molecules -- E. Papaleo, V.S. Vanni and M. Candiani -- 27.  Folate and female infertility: folate-metabolizing pathway in folliculogenesis, infertility treatment, and implantation -- S. Altmäe1,2, M. Laanpere1, C. Campoy2 and A. Salumets1,3 -- 28.  Dietary intolerance and endometriosis: an immunological link in the pathogenesis of an enigmatic disease? -- Y. Muscat Baron -- 29.  Gastro-intestinal symptoms in women with pelvic endometriosis -- Y. Muscat Baron -- 30.  The role of vitamin D for conception, polycystic ovary syndrome, endometriosis and the menstrual cycle -- M. Grundmann and F. Von Versen-Höynck -- 31.  Polycystic ovary syndrome and the metabolic syndrome -- T.J. Hunter and R. Hart
32.  Diabetes mellitus and polycystic ovary syndrome: implications for diet and nutrition -- N. Mendoza1 and M.J. Cancelo2 -- 33.  Hypocaloric diets in overweight and obese patients with polycystic ovary syndrome -- S. Palomba, A. Falbo and G.B. La Sala -- About the editors -- Index
The reproductive cycle in women is complex and can be considered to begin with epigenetic programming and ending with menopause. Intervening steps involve a variety of processes, including the cellular development of the sex organs, menarche, episodic endocrine cycles, menstruation, ovulation and conception. These processes can be influenced by diet and nutrition and vice versa. Body composition has an impact on the menstrual cycle and periconception and these factors in turn also influence body composition. Similarly, either food deprivation, dietary excess or obesity can result in marked changes in the menstrual cycle with a concomitant effect on fertility.This handbook is the first scientific source that provides a comprehensive overview of the relationship of diet and nutrition with puberty, menarche and menstrual cycle, conception and fertility and infertility. The handbook of diet and nutrition in the menstrual cycle, conception and fertility will benefit dieticians, nutritionists, gynaecologists, endocrinologists, obstetricians, paediatricians and those concerned with women's health in general
