The Cambridge companion to women's writing in Britain, 1660 - 1789
"Women writers played a central role in the literature and culture of eighteenth-century Britain. Featuring essays on female writers and genres by leading scholars in the field, this Companion introduces readers to the range, significance and complexity of women's writing across multiple genres in Britain between 1660 and 1789. Divided into two parts, the Companion first discusses women's participation in print culture, featuring essays on topics such as women and popular culture, women as professional writers, women as readers and writers, and place and publication. Additionally, part one explores the ways women writers crossed generic boundaries. The second part contains chapters on many of the key genres in which women wrote including poetry, drama, fiction (early and later), history, the ballad, periodicals, and travel writing. The Companion also provides an introduction surveying the state of the field, an integrated chronology, and a guide to further reading"--
"Virginia Woolf observed that the fact non-aristocratic women "took to" writing and publishing in the seventeenth century "matters far more than I can prove in an hour's discourse." Her words - that women writing matters - remain as relevant today as they did nearly a century ago. Narratives of literary history change as each successive generation of scholars and students refines, revises, and perhaps transforms the understanding of a literary period. Nowhere is that transformative process more evident than in the literary history of women's writing in England. In the early twentieth century, some scholars championed individual woman writers through, in part, the recovery of primary texts: Myra Reynolds' 1903 publication of the poems of Anne Finch (1661-1720), Montague Summers' 1915 edition of the works of Aphra Behn (1640?-89), or William McBurney's 1963 collection of novels from the 1720s that included texts by Eliza Haywood (1693?- 1756) and Mary Davys (1674-1732). Woolf herself briefly mentions women writers discussed within these pages - from Behn, Finch, and H"--
