Interpreting African American history and culture at museums and historic sites
Pride and prejudice: interpreting slavery at the homes of five founding fathers / by Amanda Seymour -- Developing comprehensive and conscientious interpretation of slavery at historic sites and museums / by Kristin L. Gallas and James DeWolf Perry -- Interpreting difficult knowledge / by Julia Rose -- Expanding interpretation at historic sites: when change brings conflict / by David W. Young -- There is a doctor in the house--and he's Black / by Michelle L. McClellan -- Finding Sarah Bickford / by William Peterson -- Documenting local African American community history / by Lila Teresa Church -- Interpreting the upper-ground railroad / by Matthew Pinsker -- Churches as places of history: the case of nineteenth century Charleston, South Carolina / by Bernard E. Powers, Jr. -- Imagining slave square: resurrecting history through cemetery research and interpretation / by D L Henderson -- Furnishing slave quarters and free black homes: adding a powerful tool to interpreting African American life / by Martha B. Katz-Hyman -- Six degrees of separation: using social media and digital platforms to enhance African American history projects / by Lynn Rainville -- Asking big questions of a small place / by George W. McDaniel -- Power in limits: narrow frames open up African American public history / by Benjamin Filene -- Connecting students with community history / by Stacia Kuceyeski -- Do you have what it takes to be a freedom fighter? / by Andrea K. Jones -- Preserving Los Angeles' African American historic places / by Jenny Scanlin and Teresa Grimes -- More than just a building: interpreting the legacy of the Frederick Douglass Elementary School / by Wendi Manuel-Scott and Sara Howard-O'Brien -- Soul soldiers: giving voice to Vietnam's veterans / by Robbie Davis -- Making African American history relevant through co-creation and community service learning / by Robert Connolly and Ana M. Rea -- The Scottsboro Boys Museum: university-community collaboration yields unanticipated results / by Ellen Griffith Spears and Shelia Washington
