Race and racism in modern East Asia : vol. II: interactions, nationalism, gender and lineage
Introduction: The synthesis of foreign and indigenous constructions of race in modern East Asia and its actual operation / Rotem Kowner and Walter Demel -- Part I. Antecedents -- East Asians in the Linnaean taxonomy: sources and implications of a racial image / Rotem Kowner and Christina Skott -- Constructing racial theories on East Asians as a transnational "western" enterprise, 1750-1850 / Walter Demel -- The 'races' of East Asia in nineteenth-century European encyclopaedias / Georg Lehner -- The racial image of the Japanese in the western press published in Japan, 1861-1881 / Olavi K. Falt -- Part II. Interactions -- The propagation of racial thought in nineteenth-century China / Daniel Barth -- Learning from the south: Japan's racial construction of southern Chinese, 1895-1941 / Huei-Ying Kuo -- "The great question of the world today": Britain, the dominions, East Asian immigration and the threat of race war, 1905-1911 / Antony Best -- "Uplifting the weak and degenerated races of East Asia": American and indigenous views of sport and body in early twentieth-century East Asia / Stefan Hubner -- Racism under negotiation: the Japanese race in the Nazi-German perspective / Gerhard Krebs -- Discourses of race and racism in modern Korea, 1890s-1945 / Vladimir Tikhonov -- The United States arrives: racialization and racism in post-1945 South Korea / Nadia Y. Kim -- A post-communist coexistence in northeast Asia? Mutual racial attitudes among Russians and indigenous peoples of Siberia / David C. Lewis -- Part III. Nationalism -- Nationalism and internationalism: Sino-American racial perceptions of the Korean War / Lu Xun -- Gangtai patriotic songs and racialized Chinese nationalism / Yinghong Cheng -- Japanese as both a "race" and a "non-race": the politics of Jinshu and Minzoku and the depoliticization of Japaneseness / Yuko Kawai -- Ethnic nationalism in postwar Japan: Nihonjinron and its racial facets / Rotem Kowner and Harumi Befu -- Ethnic nationalism and internationalism in the North Korean worldview / Tatiana Gabroussenko -- Part IV. Gender and lineage -- In the name of the master: race, nationalism and masculinity in Chinese martial arts cinema / Kai-man Chang -- Sexualized racism, gender and nationalism: the case of Japan's sexual enslavement of Korean "comfort women" / Bang-soon L. Yoon -- "The guilt feeling that you exist": war, racism and Indisch-Japanese identity formation / Aya Ezawa -- The "Amerasian" knot: transpacific crossings of "GI babies" from Korea to the United States / W. Taejin Hwang -- Part V. Conclusions -- The essence and mechanisms of race and racism in modern East Asia / Rotem Kowner and Walter Demel
