Innovation and entrepreneurship in the global economy : knowledge, technology and internationalization
We have, in recent decades, been able to witness a veritable revolution in the world economy, known as 'globalization'. Generally, the term is connected to the rapid increase of the free movement of goods, capital, people, ideas, information and knowledge around the globe. This book contributes to the meso- and micro-economic literature on innovation and entrepreneurship in the global economy. Extending our understanding of the many different ways that innovation and entrepreneurship contribute to economic development and growth in a globalized economy, the expert contributors highlight that the current wave of globalization has been a period of exceptional entrepreneurship both among large multinational firms and among independent entrepreneurs. They demonstrate that location matters for creativity, innovation and entrepreneurship, and clarify that public policy in a globalized economy must stress knowledge and ideas as the source of competitiveness and economic growth. Both graduates and post graduates, along with university researchers, will find this book to be useful in their studies, particularly those with an interest in innovation and entrepreneurship research, regional economics, economic geography and international economics
Pt. I. Innovation -- 1. R&D investments and firm survival across regions / María Jesús Abellán Madrid [and two others] -- 2. Universities and public research institutes as collaboration partners for firms / Anders Broström and Maureen McKelvey -- 3. Technological advancement through imitation by industry incumbents in strategic alliances / Nerine Mary George [and three others] -- 4. Continuing corporate growth and inter-organizational collaboration of international new ventures in Sweden / Jan Abrahamsson [and two others] -- 5. Routines: do they stimulate or hinder learning and innovation in industrial production? / Knut Ingar Westeren -- Part II. Entrepreneurship -- 6. Creativity spillover of entrepreneurship: evidence from European cities / David B. Audretsch and Maksim Belitski -- 7. Start-up rates, entrepreneurship culture and the business cycle: Swedish patterns from national and regional data / Martin Andersson -- 8. Immigrant entrepreneurship and agglomeration in high-tech industries in the USA / Cathy Yang Liu [and two others] -- 9. Broadband Internet and new firm formation: a US perspective / Jitendra Parajuli and Kingsley E. Haynes -- 10. When being wrong might be right: on overconfidence as an evolutionary mechanism of nascent entrepreneurs / Martin G.A. Svensson -- Part III. Internationalization -- 11. Manufacturing renaissance: return of manufacturing to western countries / Sam Tavassoli [and two others] -- 12. Closing  the gap: empirical evidence on firms' innovation, productivity and exports / Viroj Jienwatcharamongkhol and Sam Tavassoli -- 13. Infrastructure endowment, social capital and outsourcing: evidence from Emilia Romagna, Italy / Roberto Antonietti [and two others] --Index
