Gifts of clothing in late antique literature
Introduction -- Fashioning Ancient Dress -- Clothing as a Literary Device -- The Value of Clothing in Gift-giving Practice -- Research Questions and Methodology -- Chapter Outline -- 1. Threads of History : Clothing Gifts in Greek and Roman Society Before Late Antiquity -- The Homeric period -- Classical Greece -- The Hellenistic Period -- The Roman Republic and the Transition to Empire -- The Early Empire : Case Study: Martial -- The Transition to Late Antiquity -- Conclusions -- 2. Weaving a Tranquil Work of Peace? : Clothing Gifts in Late Antique Diplomacy -- Woven Works of Peace -- Clothed Intimidation -- Recognisable Robes, Recognisable Roles -- Protective and Subordinating Clothing -- Clothing Gifts and Sassanid Persia -- Case study: Clothing Fit for a King : Tzath of the Lazi -- Conclusions -- 3. Portable Portraits : Consular Trabeae and Figural Decorations in Late Antiquity -- Figural Decoration on Non-Consular Clothing -- The Trabea -- A Trabea Store? : Obtaining Consular Vestments -- Figural Decoration on the Consular Trabea I : Consular diptychs -- Figural Decoration on the Consular Trabea II : Poetry -- Case study: Wearing the Emperor : Ausonius' Consular Trabea -- Conclusions -- 4. Holy Habits : Clothing Gifts in Late Antique Christian Contexts -- (A)dressing Christian Charity : the Benefits of Clothing -- Clothing Relics -- Fitting Clothing -- Fake Couture and Fashion Disasters -- Threads of Tension -- Under the Mantle of Orthodoxy -- Case Study: Fashioning and Refashioning Antony's Vestment -- Conclusions -- 5. Drawing the Threads Together : Conclusions
"Both clothing and gifts in the ancient world have separately been the subject of much scholarly discussion because they were an integral part of Greek and Roman society and identity, creating and reinforcing the relationships which kept a community together, as well as delineating status and even symbolising society as a whole. They have, however, rarely been studied together despite the prevalence of clothing gifts in many ancient texts. This book addresses a gap in scholarship by focusing on gifts of elite male clothing in late antique literature in order to show, that when they appeared in texts, these items were not only functioning in an historical or 'real-life' sphere but also as a literary space within which authors could discuss ideas of social relationships and authority. This book suggests that authors used items which usually formed part of the costume of authority of the period--the trabea of the consul, the chlamys of the imperial court and the emperor, and the pallium of the Christian bishops--to 'over-write' wearers and donors as confident figures of 'official' authority when this may have been open to doubt"--Provided by publisher
