Everyday life in mass dictatorship : collusion and evasion
Machine generated contents note: -- Contents 1. Introductory Notes; Alf Lüdtke 2. Ordinary People, Self-Energising, and Room for Manoeuvering: Examples from 20th Century European Dictatorships; Alf Lüdtke 3. The Third Reich: Police State or Self-Policing Society?; Peter Lambert 4. Self-Reassurance in Troubled Times: German Diaries During the Upheavals of 1933; Michael Wildt 5. Collaboration, Complicity, and Evasion Under Italian Fascism; Paul Corner 6. Stalinism 'From Below'?: Soviet State, Society, and the Great Terror; Kevin McDermott 7. The Politics of National Language and Wartime Mobilisation of Everyday Life in Late Colonial Korea, 1937-1945; Kyu Hyun Kim 8. Industrial Warriors: Labour Heroes and Everyday Life in Wartime Colonial Korea, 1937-1945; Michael Kim 9. Consumption and Consumerism in the German Democratic Republic; Harald Dehne 10. North Korea and the Education of Desire: Totalitarianism, Everyday Life, and the Making of Post-Colonial Subjectivity; Charles K. Armstrong 11. Comrade Min, Women's Paid Labour, and the Centralising Party-State: Postwar Reconstruction in North Korea; Andre Schmid 12. Between Autonomy and Productivity: the Everyday Lives of Korean Women Workers During the Park Chung-hee Era; Won Kim 13. Conscription, Collaboration, and Self-Cutting in Rural Senegal During and After World War II; Dennis Galvan 14. The Convention People's Party (CPP) in Ghana, late 1950s to the 1970s: Mobilisation for Transformation; Richard Rathbone
"Dictatorship implies oppression and arbitrary violence from above. However, this volume and the Mass Dictatorship in the 20th Century series to which it contributes dismantles that general assumption. Everyday Life in Mass Dictatorship explores the multiple forms and practices of ordinary people as they became active participants in the grand mobilisation of society not only promised, but actively pursued by dictatorial regimes in the 20th century. The volume is centrally concerned with two aspects of collusion and evasion: warfare and ruthless policies of exclusion. The impact this avalanche of unbounded violence had on survivors and successive generations is the overarching theme of the studies presented in this volume on post-colonial and post-Stalinist dictatorships. The extent to which post-colonial regimes carried on non-democratic asymmetries of power or established them anew is breathtaking. Yet the prospects of better living and 'modern times' met with overwhelming popular support in the East and West, as well as in the global North and South"--
