The Routledge handbook of language and identity
Introduction: language and identity in applied linguistics /  Siân Preece -- Perspectives on language and identity. Historical perspectives on language and identity / John E. Joseph --  Positioning language and identity: poststructuralist perspectives / Judith Baxter --  Identity in variationist sociolinguistics / Rob Drummond and Erik Schleef -- Ethnomethodological and conversation analytic approaches to identity / Bethan Benwell and Elizabeth Stokoe --  Language and identity in linguistic ethnography / Miguel Pérez-Milans --  Discursive psychology and the production of identity in language practices / Jean McAvoy --  Critical Discourse Analysis and identity / Karin Zotzmann and John P. O'Regan -- Categories and dimensions of identity. Language and ethnic identity / Vally Lytra -- Language, race and identity / Tope Omoniyi --  Linguistic practices and transnational identities / Anna De Fina --  Identity in post-colonial contexts / Priti Sandhu and Christina Higgins --  Language and religious identities / Ana Souza --  Language and gender identities / Lucy Jones -- Language and non normative sexual identities / John Gray --  Class in language and identity research / David Block --  Researching the language and identity relationship: challenges, issues and puzzles. Ethics in language and identity research / Anna Kristina Hultgren, Elizabeth J. Erling and Qumrul Hasan Chowdhury --  A linguistic ethnography of identity: adopting a heteroglossic frame / Angela Creese and Adrian Blackledge -- The politics of researcher identities: opportunities and challenges in identities research / Frances Giampapa -- Challenges for language and identity researchers in the collection and transcription of spoken interaction / Eva Duran Eppler and Eva Codó --  Beyond the micro-macro interface in language and identity research / Kristine Horner and John Bellamy --  Language and identity case studies. Constructing age identity: the case of Mexican EFL learners / Patricia Andrew --  The significance of sexual identity to language learning and teaching / Cynthia D. Nelson --  An identity transformation? Social class, language prejudice and the erasure of multilingual capital in higher education / Siân Preece --  Being a language teacher in the content classroom: teacher identity and content and language integrated learning (CLIL) / Tom Morton --  Disability identities and category work in institutional practices: the case of a 'typical ADHD girl' / Eva Hjörne and Ann-Carita Evaldsson --  'Comes with the territory': expert-novice and insider-outsider identities in police interviews / Frances Rock -- . Language, gender and identities in political life: a case study from Malaysia / Louise Mullany and Melissa Yoong --  Straight acting: discursive negotiations of a homomasculine identity / Tommaso M. Milani --  Styling and identity in a second language / Ben Rampton --  Construction of heritage language and cultural identities: a case study of two young British-Bangladeshis in London / Qumrul Hasan Chowdhury -- Minority languages and group identity: Scottish Gaelic in the Old World and the New / John Edwards -- Future directions. Intersectionality in language and identity research / David Block and Victor Corona -- Language and identity in the digital age / Ron Darvin -- Language and identity research in online environments: a multimodal ethnographic perspective / Myrrh Domingo -- Exploring neoliberal language, discourses and identities / Christian W. Chun -- The future of identity research: impact and new developments in sociolinguistics / Bettina Beinhoff and Sebastian M. Rasinger --  Identity in language learning and teaching: research agendas for the future / Peter de Costa and Bonny Norton
