Gender, institutions, and change in Bachelet's Chile
Machine generated contents note: -- Introduction: Gender, Institutions and Change in Bachelet's Chile; Georgina Waylen 1. Gendering Politics, Institutions and the Executive: Bachelet in Context; Georgina Waylen 2. Bachelet is Back: Reform Prospects and the Future of Democracy in Chile; Peter M. Siavelis 3. Disrupting Informal Institutions? Cabinet Formation in Chile in 2006 and 2014; Susan Franceschet 4. Promoting Gender Equality: Michelle Bachelet and Formal and Informal Change within the Chilean Presidency; Gwynn Thomas 5. Opportunities and constraints on gender-egalitarian policy change: Michelle Bachelet's social protection agenda (2006-2010); Silke Staab 6. Institutional Constraints on Engendering the health sector in Bachelet's Chile; Jasmine Gideon and Gabriela Alvarez Minte 7. Formal and informal institutional challenges to women's reproductive Rights: Emergency Contraception and the Constitutional Tribunal in Chile; Carmen Sepulveda-Zelaya 8. Comparing Michelle Bachelet's Two Presidencies: Continuity or Change?; Georgina Waylen Postscript; Maria de los Angeles Fernandez Ramil
"Michelle Bachelet, Chile's first female president, was elected in 2006 with an explicit gender agenda, promising to appoint new faces (including women) to her government and implement some positive gender change.  After a period as the first head of UN Women, she was subsequently reelected for a second term in 2013 with a decisive majority. This volume focuses on Bachelet's efforts in both her first and second administrations to introduce progressive measures in Chile and the constraints that she has faced in a context where both formal and informal political institutions can act as barriers to change. Written by leading experts in the field, the chapters highlight both the successes of Bachelet's governments and also the key battles that Bachelet faced, for example with regard to reproductive rights, electoral reform, and social protection"--
