Changing Asian business systems : globalization, socio-political change, and economic organization
Introduction : the comparative analysis of changing business systems in Asia / Richard Whitley and Xiaoke Zhang -- Part I. Changes and continuities in Asian business systems. Changing business systems in East Asia : continued diversity between, and varied changes in, Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan / Richard Whitley -- Institutions, dominant coalitions, and firms : comparing how Japan and Korea responded to deregulation, globalization, and competition in the telecommunications industry / Glenn Morgan and Izumi Kubo -- Systems of corporate governance in East Asia : continued divergence despite global pressure / Christina L. Ahmadjian -- Changes in Japanese and South Korean employment practices : lessons on the character of institutional change and of business systems / Arjan Keizer -- Business system evolution and the indigenization of multi-national enterprise practice transfers in Thailand and Myanmar : an 'emic' perspective / Tim G. Andrews, Khin Thi Htun, and Khongphu Nimanandh -- Part II. Socio-political structuring of Asian business systems. Change with continuity : Asian capitalism in transition / Gary G. Hamilton and Solee Shin -- State structures and business system changes in East Asia / Richard W. Carney -- Change and continuity in corporate governance structures : a study of Korea, Malaysia, and Singapore / Lai Si Tsui-Auch, Jun Jie Yang, and Toru Yoshikawa -- Socio-political structures and market organization in regional industrial systems / Xiaoke Zhang -- Financial reform and change in Asian business systems / Leslie Young -- Part III. Business systems, institutions, and innovation strategies. Compressed development, business systems, and innovation : the importance of timing and agency in economic and institutional development and change / D. Hugh Whittaker, Timothy J. Sturgeon, and Lei Song -- Entrepreneurial communities and the state : the emergence of Korea's on-line gaming industry / Steve Casper and Cornelia Storz -- How variations in business systems affect the innovativeness of Chinese firms : historical background, framework, and case studies / Jiajia Liu and Andrew Tylecote -- Innovation systems, strategies, and corporate performance in China and South Korea / Dennis McNamara -- Conclusion : Asian business systems--changes, causes, and consequences / Xiaoke Zhang and Richard Whitley
