Graphene science handbook / edited by Mahmood Aliofkhazraei, Nasar Ali, William I. Milne, Cengiz S. Ozkan, Stanislaw Mitura, Juana L. Gervasoni ; [5]: Size-dependent properties
"Graphene is the strongest material ever studied and can be an efficient substitute for silicon. There is no other major reference work of this scope on the topic of graphene, which is one of the most researched materials of the twenty-first century. The set includes contributions from top researchers in the field and a foreword written by two Nobel laureates in physics. This volume in the set focuses on size-dependent properties"--
Graphene as a spin polarized tunnel barrier / Olaf M.J. van 't Erve, Enrique Cobas, Adam L. Friedman, Connie H. Li, Aubrey T. Hanbicki, Jeremy Robinson, and Berend T. Jonker -- Modeling of the elastic properties of kevlar-graphene enveloped fiber composites / Karen S Martirosyany and Maxim Zyskinz -- Size control methods and size dependent chemical properties of graphene / Guoxin Zhang and Xiaoming Sun -- Adsorption and catalysis of graphene in environmental remediation / Hongqi Sun and Shaobin Wang -- Graphene oxide derived porous materials for hydrogen/methane storage and carbon capture / Gadipelli Srinivas, Taner Yildirim, and Z.X. Guo -- Indirect coupling between localized magnetic moments in graphene nanostructures--non-perturbative calculations / Karol Szalowski -- A many-body overview of excitonic effects in armchair graphene nanoribbons / Jessica Alfonsi -- Electronic properties of grapheneepitaxially grown on metal substrates characterized by synchrotron-based spectroscopies / Liang Zhang and Junfa Zhu -- Graphene field effect transistor chemical/biological sensors / PingAn Hu, Xiaona Wang, Jia Zhang, and Wei Feng -- Interesting details about diffusion in carbon nanotubes: an overview / Paolo Disia -- Interface traps in graphene field effect devices: extraction methods and influence on characteristics / G.I. Zebrev, E.V. Melnik, and A.A. Tselykovskiy -- Nanographene and nanowire magnetic properties: a Monte Carlo study / R. Masrour, L. Bahmad, E.K. Hlil, M. Hamedoun, and A. Benyoussef -- Quantum capacitance of graphene sheets and nanoribbons / George Kliros -- Functionalization and properties of graphene / Arun K. Nandi, Aniruddha Kundu, and Rama K. Layek -- Properties of two-dimensional silicon versus carbon systems / C. Kamal, Arup Banerjee, and Aparna Chakrabarti -- Raman and FTIR spectroscopy as valuable tools for the characterization of graphene based materials / M. Baibarac, I. Baltog, and S. Szunerits -- Dislocations pattern evolution affect materials physic properties in graphene / Tong Zhang, ZhenYu Yang, Tam Lik Ho, Ning Zhu, and DanTong Zhu -- Characterization of pristine and functionalized graphene on metal surfaces by electron spectroscopy / Simone Taioli, Alessio Paris, and Lucia Calliari -- Nanographene patterns from focused ion beam induced deposition: structural characterization of graphene materials by XPS and Raman scattering / Micaela Castellino -- Thermophysical and electrophysical properties of composite films based on multi-layer graphene and modified hydrocarbon multi-wal nanotubes / A.A. Babaev, A.M. Aliev, P.P. Khokhlachev, Yu. A. Nickolaev, E.I. Terukov, A.B. Freidin, R.A. Filippov, and A.K. Fillipov -- Graphene gas sensor: single-molecule gas detection / Y. Battie and P. Thobois -- Graphene-based semiconductor materials for photocatalytic applications / Seen-Yee Voon, Wee-Jun Ong, Lling-Lling Tan, Siek-Ting Yong, and Siang-Piao Chai -- Fundamentals of electronic modification of graphene by Si and H / Mary Clare Sison Escaño, Tien Quang Nguyen, and Hideaki Kasai -- Applications of graphene in semiconductor devices as transparent contact layers, diffusion barriers and thermal management layers / F. Ren, S.J. Pearton, and Jihyun Kim -- Application of graphene and graphene oxide in dye-sensitized solar cells / Jianyong Ouyang -- Graphenes and their applications in healthcare systems / Mahfoozur Rahman, Sarwar Beg, Mohammad Zaki Ahmad, Firoz Anwar, and Vikas Kumar -- Advances in graphene RF transistors and applications / Jeong-sun Moon, Kurt D. Gaskill, and Peter Asbeck -- Graphene transistors: silicon CMOS compatible processing for applications in nanoelectronics / Pia Juliane Wessely and Udo Schwalke -- Graphene nanocomposites for lithium batteries application / Yi Shi, Jia-Zhao Wang, Shulei Chou, and Hua-Kun Liu -- Improving corrosion resistance via graphene nanocomposite coatings / R. Asmatulu, S.I. Khan, and M.L. Jenkinson -- Supercapacitors based on graphene-like surfaces / Gemma Rius
