Graphene science handbook / edited by Mahmood Aliofkhazraei, Nasar Ali, William I. Milne, Cengiz S. Ozkan, Stanislaw Mitura, Juana L. Gervasoni ; [2]: Nanostructure and atomic arrangement
"Graphene is the strongest material ever studied and can be an efficient substitute for silicon. There is no other major reference work of this scope on the topic of graphene, which is one of the most researched materials of the twenty-first century. The set includes contributions from top researchers in the field and a foreword written by two Nobel laureates in physics. This volume in the set focuses on nanostructure and atomic arrangement"--
Graphene heterostructures / Zheng Liu -- Atomic-scale defects and impurities on grapheme / R. Martinazzo -- Atomic arrangement and its effects on electronic structures of graphene from tight-binding description / Sirichok Jungthawan -- Graphene plasmonics: light-matter interactions at the atomic scale / Pai-Yen Chen -- Graphene/polymer nanocomposites: crystal structure, mechanical and thermal properties / Carlos Velasco -- Graphene-like structures as cages for doxorubicin / Vojtech Adam -- Mathematical modeling for hydrogen storage inside graphene-based materials / Yue Chan -- Morphology of cylindrical carbon nanostructures grown by catalytic chemical vapor deposition method / Subrata Ray -- sp2 to sp3 phase transformation in graphene-like nanofilms / Jinlong Yang -- Symmetry and topology of graphenes / A.R. Ashrafi -- N-doped graphene for supercapacitors / Dingsheng Yuan -- Electrical and optical properties and applications of doped graphene sheets / Kim Soo Young -- Chemical modifications of graphene via covalent bonding / Jingquan Liu -- Functionalization and vacancy effects on hydrogen binding in grapheme / A. Tapia -- Modifications of electronic properties of graphene by boron (B) and nitrogen (N) substitution / Debnarayan Jana -- Electronic structure and topological disorder in sp2 phases of carbon / David Drabold -- 3D macroscopic graphene assemblies / Marcus A. Worsley -- 3D-AFM-hyperfine imaging of graphene mono-layers deposit on YBCO-superconducting surface / Khaled Elsabawy -- Phonon spectrum and vibrational thermodynamic characteristics of graphene nanofilms / A. Feher -- Tuning atomic and electronic properties of graphene by selective doping / Cecile Malardier-Jugroot -- Scanning electron microscopy of graphene / Yoshikazu Homma -- Tunneling current of the contact of the curved graphene nanoribbon with metal and quantum dots / Natalia N. Yanyushkina -- Using few-layer graphene sheets as ultimate reference of quantitative transmission electron microscopy / Fengqi Song -- Computational modeling of graphene and carbon nanotube structures in the terahertz, near-infrared and optical regimes / Mario F. Pantoja -- Design and properties of graphene based three dimensional (3D) architectures / Ludovic Dumee -- Electronic structure of graphene based materials and their carrier transport properties / Liang Gengchiau -- Graphene-enabled heterostructures: role in future-generation carbon electronics / Bin Yu -- Recent progresses and understanding of lithium storage behavior of graphene nanosheet anode for lithium ion batteries / Xueliang A. Sun -- Study of the transmission, transport and electronic structure properties of periodic and aperiodic graphene-based structures / Isaac Rodriguez-Vargas -- Benefits of few-layer graphene structures for various applications / Irina Antonova -- Designing carbon-based thin films from graphene-like nanostructures / Cecilia Goyenola -- Graphene based hybrid composites / Antonio F. Avila -- Graphene dispersion by polymers and hybridization with nanoparticles / Jiang-Jen Lin -- Magnetocaloric effect of graphenes / Mario Reis -- Mode-locked of fiber laser employing graphene based saturable absorber / Isabella Huang
