Mindfulness in the workplace : an evidence-based approach to improving wellbeing and maximizing performance
"Mindfulness-based interventions in organizations offer the potential to build individual and institutional resilience, engage employees, and address workplace stress. Drawing from the latest research in neuroscience and behavioral science, Mindfulness in the Workplace explains how this approach can be used as a change management and organizational development strategy. The book proposes that OD and HR professionals are best suited to understand the complexity of implementing change in organizational systems and therefore should be the ones bringing mindfulness in-house. Chapters cover how to identify the key stakeholders and how to work with them on creating a mindfulness initiative, how to adapt the language of mindfulness to the context of the organization, how to establish metrics, and measure return on investment. Case studies from companies including Capital One Finance, illustrate why organizations choose to implement mindfulness, how they do so, the challenges they face, lessons learned, and the results.  "--
"Mindfulness-based interventions in organizations offer the potential to build individual and organizational resilience, engage employees and address workplace stress. Mindfulness in the Workplace is a practical guide written for practitioners who want to learn how mindfulness can be used as a change management and organizational development strategy. Drawing from the latest research evidence from neuro- and behavioural science, Mindfulness in the Workplace offers a framework and guidance on how to start evolution- not revolution- in the organization. It ensures the greatest chance of success, showing how to identify the key stakeholders and work with them on understanding the power of a mindfulness initiative, how to identify a mindfulness champion, adapt the language of mindfulness to the context of the organization, establish metrics, and measure return on investment. Mindfulness in the Workplace proposes that HR and OD professionals are best placed to understand the complexity of implementing change in organizational systems and, therefore, the practice of mindfulness need to be brought in-house, even if they bring in external mindfulness coaches to train their leaders. Case studies including Capital One Finance and the NHS Mental Health Trust cover the reasoning behind these initiatives, how they were planned, the barriers they faced, the lessons learned, and their results. This book offers a forum for HR and OD practitioners to hear from other practitioners who have implemented organizational mindfulness-based interventions using change management principles so that they can understand how they might be applied to their own practice and their own organizations"--
