The Cambridge companion to medievalism
Machine generated contents note: Introduction: medievalism: scope and complexity Louise D'Arcens; 1. Medievalism in British poetry Chris Jones; 2. Medievalism and architecture John M. Ganim; 3. Medievalism and cinema Bettina Bildhauer; 4. Musical medievalism and the harmony of the spheres Helen Dell; 5. Participatory medievalism, digital gaming, and role playing Daniel T. Kline; 6. Early modern medievalism Mike Rodman Jones; 7. Romantic medievalism Clare A. Simmons; 8. Academic medievalism and nationalism Richard Utz; 9. Medievalism and the ideology of war Andrew Lynch; 10. Medievalism in Spanish America after independence Nadia Altschul; 11. Neomedievalism and international relations Bruce Holsinger; 12. Global medievalism and translation Candace Barrington; 13. Medievalism and theories of temporality Stephanie Trigg; 14. Queer medievalisms: a case study of Monty Python and the Holy Grail Tison Pugh
"Medievalism - the creative interpretation or recreation of the European Middle Ages - has had a major presence in the cultural memory of the modern West, and has grown in scale to become a global phenomenon. Countless examples across aesthetic, material and political domains reveal that the medieval period has long provided a fund of images and ideas that have been vital to defining 'the modern'. Bringing together local, national and global examples and tracing medievalism's unpredictable course from early modern poetry to contemporary digital culture, this authoritative Companion offers a panoramic view of the historical, aesthetic, ideological and conceptual dimensions of this phenomenon. It showcases a range of critical positions and approaches to discussing medievalism, from more 'traditional' historicist and close-reading practices through to theoretically engaged methods. It also acquaints readers with key terms and provides them with a sophisticated conceptual vocabulary for discussing the medieval afterlife in the modern"--
