The fast forward MBA in project management
"For any professional responsible for coordinating projects among different departments, executive levels, or projects with technical complexity, this book clearly explains how to do it on time and on budget.  From finding the right sponsor to clarifying objectives to setting a realistic schedule and budget projections, this book will help everyone better manage the relationships and process needed to get the project done.  This fifth edition is updated to reflect changes in the business environment in the past few years including:    Rewrites to connect to current events and trends.  New case studies of project management in action (Hospital Enterprise Project Management Office and Washington State's Highway 99 tunnel).  An updated chapter on engaging stockholders and the discipline of change management.  Information on using Agile techniques for project scheduling.  References to the PMP exam.  "--
Introduction. Project management: a platform for innovation -- Foundation principles of project management -- Build great products: lessons from Agile, Lean start-up, and Stage-Gate -- Defining the project. Project initiation: turning a problem or opportunity into a project -- Know your key stakeholders and win their cooperation -- Write the rules: key documents to manage expectations and define success -- The planning process. Risk management: minimize the threats to your project -- Work breakdown structure: break your project into manageable units of work -- Realistic scheduling -- Managing agile development with scrum -- The art and science of accurate estimating -- Balancing the trade-off among cost, schedule, and quality -- Controlling the project. Building a high-performance project team -- Clear communication among project stakeholders -- Control scope to deliver value -- Measuring progress -- Solving common project problems -- Advancing your practice of project management. Enterprise project management: coordinate all projects and project resources in your organization -- Requirements engineering: the key to building the right product -- Project portfolio management: align project resources with business strategy -- PMP exam preparation -- Microsoft project: guidelines for effective use -- Appendix A: The detailed planning model -- Appendix B: Downloadable form samples
