German modernities from Wilhelm to Weimar : a contest of futures
"What was German modernity? What did the years between 1880 and 1930 mean for Germany's navigation through a period of global capitalism, imperial expansion, and technological transformation? German Modernities From Wilhelm to Weimar brings together leading historians of the Imperial and Weimar periods from across North America to readdress the question of German modernities. Acutely attentive to Germany's eventual turn towards National Socialism and the related historiographical arguments about 'modernity,' this volume explores the variety of social, intellectual, political, and imperial projects pursued by those living in Germany in the Wilhelmine and Weimar years who were yet uncertain about what they were creating and which future would come. It includes varied case studies, based on cutting-edge research, which rethink the relationship of the early 20th century to the rise of Nazism and the Third Reich. A range of political, social and cultural issues, including citizenship, welfare, empire, aesthetics and sexuality, as well as the very nature of German modernity, are analyzed and placed in a global context. German Modernities From Wilhelm to Weimar is a book of vital significance to all students of modern German history seeking to further understand the complex period from 1880 to 1930"--
"An examination of the many competing meanings of modernity in Germany in the years between 1880 and 1930 which embraces social, intellectual, political and imperial aspects of the nation's history"--
1. Introduction / Geoff Eley, Jennifer Jenkins and Tracie Matysik -- 2. Neither Singular nor Alternative : Narratives of Welfare and Modernity in Germany, 1870-1945 / Young-Sun Hong (State University of New York at Stony Brook, USA) -- 3. What Was German Modernity and When? / Geoff Eley (University of Michigan, USA) -- 4. Alternative Modernities : Imperial Germany through the Lens of Russia / Annemarie Sammartino (Oberlin College, USA) -- 5. Elsewhere in Central Europe : Jewish Literature in the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy between "Habsburg Myth" and "Central Europe Effect" / Scott Spector (University of Michigan, USA) -- 6. Communism and Colonialism in the Red and Black Atlantic : Toward a Transnational Narrative of German Modernity / Andrew Zimmerman (George Washington University, USA) -- 7. The Racial Economy of Weltpolitik : Imperialist Expansion, Domestic Reform, and War in Pan-German Ideology, 1894-1918 / Dennis Sweeney (University of Alberta, Canada) -- 8. The Wilhelmine Reform Milieu Reconsidered : The Deutscher Werkbund, the Prussian Commerce Ministry and Germany's Commercial Ambitions / John Maciuika (Baruch College, City University of New York, USA) -- 9. Prevention, Welfare, and Citizenship : The War on Tuberculosis and Infant Mortality in Germany, 1900-1930 / Larry Frohman (State University of New York at Stony Brook, USA) -- 10. Secularism, Subjectivity and Reform : Shifting Variables / Tracie Matysik (University of Texas at Austin, USA) -- 11. War, Citizenship and the Rhetorics of Sexual Crisis : Reflections on States of Exception in Germany, 1914-1920 / Kathleen Canning (University of Michigan, USA) -- 12. Anchoring the Nation in the Democratic Form : Weimar Symbolic Politics Beyond the Failure Paradigm / Manuela Achilles (University of Virginia, USA) -- 13. The Werkbund Exhibition : "The New Age" of 1932 / Jennifer L. Jenkins (University of Toronto, Canada) -- 14. Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakthrough : Emancipation, Sexuality and Female Political Subjectivity / Marti Lybeck (University of Wisconsin La Crosse, USA) -- 15. National Socialism and the Limits of "Modernity" / Mark Roseman (Indiana University, USA)
