Networks of refugees from Nazi Germany : continuities, reorientations, and collaborations in exile
"This volume focuses on coalitions and collaborations formed by refugees from Nazi Germany in their host countries. Exile from Nazi Germany was a global phenomenon involving the expulsion and displacement of entire families, organizations, and communities. While forced emigration inevitably meant loss of familiar structures and surroundings, successful integration into often very foreign cultures was possible due to the exiles' ability to access and/or establish networks. By focusing on such networks rather than on individual experiences, the contributions in this volume provide a complex and nuanced analysis of the multifaceted, interacting factors of the exile experience. This approach connects the NS-exile to other forms of displacement and persecution and locates it within the ruptures of civilization dominating the twentieth and twenty-first centuries. Contributors are: Dieter Adolph, Jacob Boas, Margit Franz, Katherine Holland, Birgit Maier-Katkin Leonie Marx, Wolfgang Mieder, Thomas Schneider, Helga Schreckenberger, Swen Steinberg, Karina von Tippelskirch, Jörg Thunecke, Jacqueline Vansant, and Veronika Zwerger"--Provided by publisher
Part 1. International and local networks : cooperation, intersection and competition -- Konkurrierende Netzwerke im kenianischen Exil : Zwischenpositionen der Familie Stefanie Zweigs / Leonie Marx -- Netzwerke der Zwischenkriegszeit als Fluchthilfen aus Zentraleuropa nach Britisch-Indien 1933 bis 1945 / Margit Franz -- Part 2. Political networks : new formations and continuity -- "Fight for freedom" : a Vansittartist network of rightwing German socialists in Great Britain (1941-1945) / Jorg Thunecke -- How to become isolated in isolation? : networks in the German political and trade union exile after 1933 / Swen Steinberg -- "Eine kleine Gruppe Entschlossener..." : the Federacion de Austriacos Libres in Bolivia / Veronika Zwerger -- Part 3. Intermediating networks -- Bridges and islands : community and Karin Michaelis in and out of exile, 1907-1942 / Katherine Hollander -- Central Europe in Vermont : German exile writers and the American journalist Dorothy Thompson / Karina von Tippelskirch -- Salka Viertel's transnational Hollywood network / Helga Schreckenberger -- Part 4. Professional networks : old and new -- Thomas Manns Beziehung zu seinen amerikanischen Verlegern, Forderern und Agenturen / Dieter Adolphs -- "Dem verbotenen Geist ein Zentrum schaffen" : Anna Seghers and her networks in exile / Birgit Maier-Katkin -- Networking exile : going Dutch : emigre writers in the Netherlands, 1933-1940, and one Dutchman's assessment (Menno Ter Braak) / Jacob Boas -- Networking the arts : Erich Maria Remarque and art / Thomas F. Schneider -- Part 5. Epistolary networks -- Cohesive epistolary networks in exile / Jacqueline Vansant -- "Ein Schriftsteller abgeschnittener deutscher Zunge" : zur spaten Vernetzung des Exilautors Arthur Feldmann / Wolfgang Mieder
