Cylindrical gears : calculation - materials - manufacturing
Unrivalled compendium on the development of gear units This book contains a complete presentation of all branches essential for the development of gear units, in particular that of cylindrical gears. The main subareas are geometry, load capacity, gear noise, design process, quality assurance, materials, heat treatment, and manufacturing. Further topics covered are material selection, strength values, the creation of drawings as well as practical design examples. The used technical terms and standards are based on the internationally valid and applied ISO standards.  This book provides the basis for practical calculations and detailed analyses. It addresses graduate engineers in research, development and manufacturing departments as well as students and postgraduates in mechanical and plant engineering, as well as in automotive, aerospace and marine engineering.  Prof. Dr.-Ing. habil. Heinz Linke was holder of the chair at the Institute for Machine Elements and Machine Design at the TU Dresden and is still active in research, consultancy and advice on cylindrical gears. He is an overseas member of the American Gear Manufacturers Association (AGMA). Heinz Linke worked on DIN 743 (Calculation of load capacity of shafts and axles) and VDI Guideline 2737 (Calculation of load capacity of shafts and axles of the gear rim). Dr.-Ing. Jörg Börner is a specialist in gear design and recalculation in the Gear Development Department at ZF Friedrichshafen AG in Friedrichshafen. He is also actively involved in the Forschungsvereinigung Antriebstechnik (Drive Technology Research Association), where he works in the Cylindrical Gearing working group. Dr.-Ing. Ralf Hess is Senior Key Expert at Siemens Mechanical Drives. He is a member of the American Gear Manufacturers Association (AGMA) and of the DIN working groups for Tooth Load Capacity Calculation, Bevel Gears, and Cylindrical Gear Tolerances. As part of the ISO TC60 Gears committee, he is an active member of the Accuracy of Gears and Bevel Gears working groups.
