Learning landscape ecology : a practical guide to concepts and techniques
This book meets a demand for training in spatial analysis tools. Much of the strength of landscape ecology lies in its ability to address challenges over large areas, over spatial and temporal scales at which decision-making often occurs. As the world tackles issues related to sustainability and global change, the need for this broad perspective has increased. Furthermore, spatial data and spatial analyses (core methods in landscape ecology) are critical for analyzing land-cover changes worldwide. While spatial dynamics have long been fundamental to terrestrial conservation strategies, land management, and reserve design, mapping and spatial themes are increasingly recognized as important for ecosystems management in aquatic, coastal, and marine systems. --
Part I. What is a landscape?: basic concepts and tools -- 1. Introduction to remote sensing / Nicholas C. Coops and Thoreau Rory Tooke -- 2. Historical aerial photography for landscape analysis / Jessica L. Morgan, Sarah E. Gergel, Collin Ankerson, Stephanie A. Tomscha, and Ira J. Sutherland -- 3. Citizen science for assessing landscape change / Jeffrey A. Cardille and Michelle M. Jackson -- Part II. Fundamentals of quantifying landscape pattern -- 4. Understanding landscape metrics / Jeffrey A. Cardille and Monica G. Turner -- 5. Scale detection with semivariograms and autocorrelograms / Michael W. Palmer and Daniel J. McGlinn -- 6. Characterizing categorical map patterns using neutral landscape models / Robert H. Gardner -- 7. What constitutes a significant difference in landscape pattern? / Tarmo K. Remmel and Marie-Josée Fortin -- Part III. Landscape change and disturbance -- 8. Introduction to Markov models / Dean L. Urban and David O. Wallin -- 9. Simulating management actions and their effect on forest landscape pattern / Eric J. Gustafson -- 10. Regional and continental-scale perspectives on landscape pattern / Jeffrey A. Cardille and Monica G. Turner -- 11. Using spatial statistics and landscape metrics to compare disturbance mosaics / Monica G. Turner and Martin Simard -- Part IV. Applications for conservation and assessing connectivity -- 12. Assessing multi-scale landscape connectivity using network analysis / Todd R. Lookingbill and Emily S. Minor -- 13. Systematic conservation planning with Marxan / Matthew E. Watts, Romola R. Stewart, Tara G. Martin, Carissa J. Klein, Josie Carwardine, and Hugh P. Possingham -- 14. Connectivity as the amount of reachable habitat: conservation priorities and the roles of habitat patches in landscape networks / Santiago Saura and Begoña de la Fuente -- 15. Linking landscapes and metacommunities / Joseph R. Bennett and Ben Gilbert -- Part V. Ecosystem processes and feedbacks in social-ecological landscapes -- 16. Modeling spatial dynamics of ecosystem processes and services / Sarah E. Gergel and Tara Reed -- 17. Heterogeneity in ecosystem services: multi-scale carbon management in tropical forest landscapes / Kathryn R. Kirby, Jeanine M. Rhemtulla, and Sarah E. Gergel -- 18. Regime shifts and spatial resilience in a coral reef seascape / Jennifer C. Selgrath, Garry D. Peterson, Matilda Thyresson, Magnus Nyström, and Sarah E. Gergel -- 19. Understanding land-use feedbacks and ecosystem service trade-offs in agriculture / Lisa A. Schulte and John C. Tyndall -- 20. Social networks: uncovering social-ecological (mis)matches in heterogeneous marine landscapes / Örjan Bodin and Beatrice I. Crona
