The Oxford handbook of contemporary Buddhism
"As an incredibly diverse religious system, Buddhism is constantly changing. The Oxford Handbook of Contemporary Buddhism offers a comprehensive collection of work by leading scholars in the field that tracks these changes up to the present day. Taken together, the book provides a blueprint to understanding Buddhism's past and uses it to explore the ways in which Buddhism has transformed in the twentieth and twenty-first centuries. The volume contains 41 essays, divided into two sections. The essays in the first section examine the historical development of Buddhist traditions throughout the world. These chapters cover familiar settings like India, Japan, and Tibet as well as the less well-known countries of Vietnam, Bhutan, and the regions of Latin America, Africa, and Oceania. Focusing on changes within countries and transnationally, this section also contains chapters that focus explicitly on globalization, such as Buddhist international organizations and diasporic communities. The second section tracks the relationship between Buddhist traditions and particular themes. These chapters review Buddhist interactions with contemporary topics such as violence and peacebuilding, and ecology, as well as Buddhist influences in areas such as medicine and science. Offering coverage that is both expansive and detailed, The Oxford Handbook of Contemporary Buddhism delves into some of the most debated and contested areas within Buddhist Studies today. "
Machine generated contents note: -- Contributors -- Introduction: The Buddhist System in Transition -- Michael Jerryson, Youngstown State University -- <strong>Part I: Regions </strong> -- South Asian -- 1. Contemporary Sri Lankan Buddhist Traditions -- Mahinda Deegalle, Bath Spa University -- 2. Buddhism in Contemporary India -- David Geary, University of British Columbia, Okanagan and -- Sraman Mukherjee, Presidency University, Kolkata -- 3. Buddhism in Contemporary Bhutan -- Samdrup Rigyal, Royal University of Bhutan and -- Alyson Prude, Georgia Southern University -- East Asian -- 4. Contemporary Chinese Buddhist Traditions -- Mario Poceski, University of Florida -- 5. Contemporary Korean Buddhist Traditions -- Mark A. Nathan, University at Buffalo, SUNY -- 6. Contemporary Japanese Buddhist Traditions -- Elisabetta Porcu, University of Cape Town -- Central Asian -- 7. Contemporary Tibetan Buddhism -- Abraham Zablocki, Agnes Scott College -- 8. Contemporary Mongolian Buddhism -- Vesna Wallace, University of California, Santa Barbara and -- Christine Murphy, University of California, Santa Barbara -- Southeast Asian -- 9. Contemporary Vietnamese Buddhism -- Alexander Soucy, Saint Mary's University -- 10. Contemporary Thai Buddhism -- Rachelle Scott, University of Tennessee -- 11. Contemporary Burmese Buddhism -- Niklas Foxeus, Stockholm University -- 12. Contemporary Cambodian Buddhist Traditions: Seen from the Past -- Ashley Thompson, SOAS, University of London -- 13. Contemporary Buddhism in Malaysia -- Jeffrey Samuels, Western Kentucky University -- 14. Contemporary Lao Buddhism -- Patrice Ladwig, Max Planck Institute for Social Anthropology -- European-American -- 15. Buddhism in Latin America -- Cristina Rocha, University of Western Sydney -- 16. U.S. Buddhist Traditions -- Joseph Cheah, University of Saint Joseph -- 17. European Buddhist Traditions -- Laurence Cox, National University of Ireland -- Southern -- 18. Buddhism in Africa -- Michel Clasquin-Johnson, University of South Africa -- 19. Buddhism in Australia and the Oceania -- Michelle Barker, James Cook University -- Global -- 20. Diasporic Buddhisms and Convert Communities -- John Nelson, University of San Francisco -- 21. Buddhist International Organizations -- Brooke Schedneck, Chiang Mai University -- <strong>Part II: Modalities </strong> -- Material Culture -- 22. Buddhist Relics and Pilgrimage -- Jovan Maud, Georg-August University, Göttingen -- 23. Contemporary Buddhist Architecture: From reliquary to theme park -- Lawrence Chua, Syracuse University -- 24. Contemporary Buddhism and Iconography -- Jessica Patterson, University of San Diego -- 25. Buddhism and Media Technologies -- Gregory Price Grieve, University of North Carolina, Greensboro and -- Daniel Veidlinger, California State University- Chico -- Social Engagement -- 26. Contemporary Buddhism and Ecology -- Susan M. Darlington, Hampshire College -- 27. Buddhism, Business, and Economics -- Trine Brox, University of Copenhagen -- and Elizabeth Williams-Oerberg, University of Copenhagen -- 28. Contemporary Buddhism and Education -- Vladimir Tikhonov, University of Oslo -- 29. Buddhism, Nationalism and Governance -- Matthew J. Walton, St. Antony's College -- 30. Buddhism, Conflict, and Peacebuilding -- Michael Jerryson, Youngstown State University -- Practices -- 31. Contemporary Buddhism, Chanting and Music -- Paul Greene, Penn State, Brandywine -- 32. Buddhist Healing and Taming in Tibet -- Barbara Gerke, Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin -- 33. Contemporary Buddhism and Magic -- Erick White, Cornell University -- 34. Contemporary Tantric Buddhist Traditions -- David Gray, Santa Clara University -- 35. Buddhism and Death -- Mark Rowe, McMaster University -- Identity -- 36. Buddhism and Gender -- Sharon Suh, Seattle University -- 37. Buddhism, Race, and Ethnicity -- Joseph Cheah, University of Saint Joseph -- 38. Buddhism and Sexual Orientation -- Hsiao-Lan Hu, University of Detroit Mercy -- 39. Buddhist Encounters with Diversity -- Donald Swearer -- Academics -- 40. Buddhism and Science as Ethical Discourse -- Francisca Cho, Georgetown University -- 41. The Contemporary Study of Buddhism -- Nathan McGovern, Dalhousie University -- Index
