Roberto Bolaño as world literature
"Roberto Bolaño as World Literature provides an introduction to the Chilean novelist that highlights his connections with classic and contemporary masters of world literature and his investigation of topics of international interest, such as the rise of rightwing and neofascist movements during the last decades of the 20th century.  But this anthology also shows how Roberto Bolaño's participation in world literature is informed in his experiences, identity, and, more generally, cultural location as a Chilean, Latin American and, more generally, Hispanic writer and man. This book provides a corrective to readings of his novels as exclusively "postmodern" or as unproblematically representative of Chilean or Latin American reality.  Roberto Bolaño as World Literature thus helps readers to better understand such complex works as his monumental global five-part masterpiece 2666, his Chilean novels (Distant Star, By Night in Chile), and his Mexican narratives (Amulet, The Savage Detectives), among other works"--
Machine generated contents note: -- Introduction: Fractured Masterpieces -- Nicholas Birns (College of New Rochelle, USA) and Juan E De Castro (Eugene Lang College, The New School for Liberal Arts, USA) -- I. Bolaño and World History -- 1. On Fascism, history and evil in Roberto Bolaño -- Federico Finchelstein (The New School, USA) -- 2. "More Culture!": The Rules of Art in Roberto Bolaño's By Night in Chile -- Thomas Beebee (Pennsylvania State University, USA) -- 3. Politics and Ethics in Latin America: On Roberto Bolaño -- Juan E. De Castro (The New School,USA) -- 4. The Repolitization of the Latin American Shore: Roberto Bolaño and the Dispersion of "World Literature" -- Oswaldo Zavala (City University of New York, USA) -- II. Bolaño's Literary Worlds -- 5. Bolaño, Ethics, and the Experts -- Will H. Corral (Independent Scholar) -- 6. Considerations on the Real and Reality in Juan Luis Martínez's La nueva novela and in Roberto Bolaño's The Savage Detectives -- Patricia Espinosa H. (Instituto de Estética, Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile) -- 7. Global Bolaño: Reading, Writing and Publishing in a Neoliberal World -- José Enrique Navarro (Wichita State University, USA) -- III. Bolaño's Global Readers -- 8. Mocking World Literature and Canon Parodies in Roberto Bolaño's Fiction -- Benjamin Loy (University of Köln, Germany) -- 9. On Depoliticized Politics: Roberto Bolaño's Reception in China -- Teng Wei (South China Normal University, China) -- 10. Black Dawn: Roberto Bolaño as (North) American Writer -- Nicholas Birns (College of New Rochelle, USA) -- 11. Roberto Bolaño and the Remapping of World-Literature -- Sharae Deckard (University College Dublin,UK) Index
