Computer, network, software, and hardware engineering with applications
There are many books on computers, networks, and software engineering but none that integrate the three with applications. Integration is important because, increasingly, software dominates the performance, reliability, maintainability, and availability of complex computer and systems. Books on software engineering typically portray software as if it exists in a vacuum with no relationship to the wider system. This is wrong because a system is more than software. It is comprised of people, organizations, processes, hardware, and software. All of these components must be considered in an integrative fashion when designing systems. On the other hand, books on computers and networks do not demonstrate a deep understanding of the intricacies of developing software. In this book you will learn, for example, how to quantitatively analyze the performance, reliability, maintainability, and availability of computers, networks, and software in relation to the total system. Furthermore, you will learn how to evaluate and mitigate the risk of deploying integrated systems. You will learn how to apply many models dealing with the optimization of systems. Numerous quantitative examples are provided to help you understand and interpret model results. This book can be used as a first year graduate course in computer, network, and software engineering; as an on-the-job reference for computer, network, and software engineers; and as a reference for these disciplines
There are many books on computers, networks, software, or hardware engineering. However, this one is different: it provides a comprehensive approach that integrates all of these components with applications. Moreover, it takes into account the people and organizations who depend on computer systems, enabling readers to design and deploy a seamless and secure computer-based system that meets the needs of all users.Computer, Network, Software, and Hardware Engineering with Applications sets forth a step-by-step, total system approach to quantitatively analyze the performance, reliability, maintainability, and availability of computers, networks, software, and hardware. Moreover, the author explains how to evaluate and minimize the risk when deploying these integrated systems.Following the author's clear explanations, readers will master:. Quantitative models to solve core computer, network, software, and hardware engineering problems. Mathematical and statistical models to test for reliability, maintainability, and availability. Statistical process and product control. Fault tree analysis and risk management. Effective resource allocation and assignment. Comprehensive computer and network security. Optimal network routingEach chapter begins with an abstract outlining the core concepts. Throughout the book, quantitative examples help readers understand and interpret model results. Practice problems enable readers to use the principles set forth in the book to design and implement their own integrated solutions.This book is ideal for students and professionals in computer, network, software, and hardware engineering. It will provide them with an essential set of tools and a new big-picture perspective for designing and implementing optimal computer-based systems solutions
