Foucault and the modern international : silences and legacies for the study of world politics
Acknowledgments -- Contents -- About the Editors and Contributors -- Chapter 1: Introduction: The International as an Object for Thought -- Genesis and Construction of the Book -- Foucault: The Explosives Expert -- The International as an Object for Thought -- Foucault, the International and IR: Aborted Encounter -- The Field of IR and Foucault -- Levels of Reading -- Notes -- Part I: De-disciplining Knowledge About the International -- Chapter 2: The Figure of Foucault and the Field of International Relations -- IR as a Field of Study -- Foucault Reconfigured -- Discontinuities -- Domains -- Conclusion -- Notes -- Chapter 3: Michel Foucault and International Relations: Cannibal Relations -- Introduction: Cannibal Relations -- International Relations and Political Science in France: Why Foucault Never Met Duverger -- Doing International Studies Differently: Foucault on War, Space, Territory, Population and Governmentality -- Using Foucault to Re-launch the Debate on Borders, Mobility and Freedom -- Governance and Governmentality, Welfare, Risk and (Flexi)security -- Security, Biopolitics, Surveillance and Perfect Future: Dispositifs of Power and Resistance -- Conclusion: For the Death Relevailles, a Warning and Some Questions -- Notes -- Chapter 4: The Microphysics of Power Redux -- Prologue: The Jaws of Migration -- From Microphysics to Governmentality... and Back? -- Forces and Struggles -- Bodies -- Conclusion -- Notes -- Part II: Between Philosophy and Method -- Chapter 5: Political Spirituality: Parrhesia, Truth and Factical Finitude -- Factical Finitude -- Political Spirituality and Parrhēsia -- The Ethos of the Subject of Truth -- Alethurgy -- Prosopopoeia: Figuring Truth and Rule -- Conclusion -- Notes -- Chapter 6: Power as Sumbolon: Sovereignty, Governmentality and the International -- Sumbolon -- Foucault's Trajectory on Power -- Foucault and International Politics -- Conclusion -- Notes -- Chapter 7: Foucault and Method -- Introduction: "Tools" -- Parallel Practices -- Philosophy and Method -- Dispositifs -- Truth Weapons, Parrhesia and Critique -- The Method of Critique -- New Cartographers -- Strategic Geography and Literary Space -- Conclusion: Foucault and the Ethico-Politics of Aesthetics -- Notes -- Part III: International? -- Chapter 8: Silencing Colonialism: Foucault and the International -- International Society and Its European Alterities: Silencing Colonialism -- The Homogeneous Time of the International Society -- Conclusion -- Notes -- Chapter 9: Violence and the Modern International: An Archaeology of Terrorism -- Problem(s), Problematization, Archaeology -- Problem(s), Problematization and Theoretical Practice -- From Problem to Problematization -- Problem, Concept and Theoretical Practice -- The Role of the Intellectual and the Archaeological -- Problematizing a Domain of Practice -- Archaeology as Method -- The Emergence of Terrorism and the Problematization of Violence -- The Counter-Insurgency Matrix of Terrorism -- Terrorism as an Object of Knowledge -- Security in the Modern Problematization of Violence -- The Archaeology of Terrorism and the Genesis of "Traceability Societies" -- The Emergence of the Concept of Terrorism and Associated Conceptual Variations -- Terrorism as Political Violence -- Terrorism as a Spatially Distributed Potentiality of Violence -- The Networking of Security Structures and the Emergence of Traceability as a Technology for Governing "Traceability Societies" -- Notes -- Chapter 10: Foucault and the Historical Sociology of Globalization -- Convergences -- Foucault, but Deleuze Too -- Notes -- Part IV: (Neo-)liberal? -- Chapter 11: On Liberalism: Limits, the Market and the Subject -- Notes -- Chapter 12: On Bureaucratic Formalization: The Reality-­Like Fiction of Neoliberal Abstractions -- What Is Neoliberal Bureaucratization? -- Bureaucratization as Abstraction -- Neoliberal Bureaucratization: Abstraction as Reality Erected into a System -- Fiction at the Heart of Neoliberal Bureaucratization -- Notes -- Chapter 13: Too-Late Liberalism: From Promised Prosperity to Permanent Austerity -- Liberal Government: On the Verge of Crisis -- Neoliberal Government: In Crisis -- Too-Late Liberal Government: By Crisis -- Notes -- Part V: Biopolitical? -- Chapter 14: Biopolitics in the Twenty-First Century: The Malthus-Marx Debate and the Human Capital Issue -- Malthus or the Bio-economic Population Problem -- Marx: Underlying Population, Classes -- Neo-liberalism and Theories of Human Capital: Neither Population, Nor Class -- Conclusion -- Notes -- Chapter 15: Mesopolitics: Foucault, Environmental Governmentality and the History of the Anthropocene -- Notes -- Part VI: Global? -- Chapter 16: The Word and the Things: An Archaeology of an Amnesic Notion -- The Negation of the Longue Durée -- The Premises of a Globalist Representation -- Towards the Managerial Interoperability -- The "Global Information Dominance" -- Security Dynamics -- The Hybridization of Profiling -- From Visible to Invisible Control -- Notes -- Chapter 17: Foucault and Geometrics -- Population-Territory -- Biopolitics-Geopolitics -- Geometrics -- The Geometrics of Geopolitics -- The Geopolitics of Climate Change -- 'Anthropocene Geopolitics' -- Notes -- Chapter 18: Conclusion: Which Foucault? Which International? -- Problematizations -- On the Politics of Concepts -- So Which International? -- Notes -- Bibliography -- Works by Michel Foucault Cited in the Volume (By Chronological Order of the First Publication/Pronunciation) -- General Bibliography -- Index
Machine generated contents note: 1. Introduction: The International as an Object for Thought / Philippe Bonditti -- pt. I De-disciplining Knowledge About the International -- 2. The Figure of Foucault and the Field of International Relations / Nicholas Onuf -- 3. Michel Foucault and International Relations: Cannibal Relations / Didier Bigo -- 4. The Microphysics of Power Redux / William Walters -- pt. II Between Philosophy and Method -- 5. Political Spirituality: Parrhesia, Truth and Factical Finitude / Michael Dillon -- 6. Power as Sumbolon: Sovereignty, Governmentality and the International / Mitchell Dean -- 7. Foucault and Method / Michael J. Shapiro -- pt. III International? -- 8. Silencing Colonialism: Foucault and the International / Paulo Esteves -- 9. Violence and the Modern International: An Archaeology of Terrorism / Philippe Bonditti -- 10. Foucault and the Historical Sociology of Globalization / Jean-Francois Bayart -- pt. IV (Neo-)liberal? -- 11. On Liberalism: Limits, the Market and the Subject / Frederic Gros -- 12. On Bureaucratic Formalization: The Reality-Like Fiction of Neoliberal Abstractions / Beatrice Hibou -- 13. Too-Late Liberalism: From Promised Prosperity to Permanent Austerity / Mariella Pandolfi -- pt. V Biopolitical? -- 14. Biopolitics in the Twenty-First Century: The Malthus-Marx Debate and the Human Capital Issue / Luca Paltrinieri -- 15. Mesopolitics: Foucault, Environmental Governmentality and the History of the Anthropocene / Ferhat Taylan -- pt. VI Global? -- 16. The Word and the Things: An Archaeology of an Amnesic Notion / Armand Mattelart -- 17. Foucault and Geometries / Stuart Elden -- 18. Conclusion: Which Foucault? Which International? / R.B.J. Walker
This book addresses the possibilities of analyzing the modern international through the thought of Michel Foucault. The broad range of authors brought together in this volume question four of the most self-evident characteristics of our contemporary world-'international', 'neoliberal', 'biopolitical' and 'global'- and thus fill significant gaps in both international and Foucault studies. The chapters discuss what a Foucauldian perspective does or does not offer for understanding international phenomena while also questioning many appropriations of Foucault's work. This transdisciplinary volume will serve as a reference for both scholars and students of international relations, international political sociology, international political economy, political theory/philosophy and critical theory more generally
