Terrestrial ecosystem research infrastructures : challenges and opportunities
Integrated experimental research infrastructures : a paradigm shift to face an uncertain world and innovate for societal benefit / Abad Chabbi, Henry W. Loescher, Mari R. Tye, and David Hudnut -- National ecological observatory network : beginnings, programmatic and scientific challenges, and ecological forecasting / Henry W. Loescher, Eugene F. Kelly, and Russ Lea -- Field phenotyping: concepts and examples to quantify dynamic plant traits across scales in the field / M. Pilar Cendrero-Mateo ... [et al.] -- Advancing understanding of hydrological and biogeochemical interactions in evolving landscapes through controlled experimentation at the landscape evolution observatory / Aditi Sengupta ... [et al.] -- Quantifying relationships between biodiversity and ecosystem function with experiments / Charles A. Nock, Lander Baeten, Andy Hector, Kris Verheyen Wolfgang W. Weisser and Michael Scherer-Lorenzen -- Frontiers of ecosystem modeling and large-scale experiments / Lifen Jiang, Jiang Jiang, Junyi Liang, Kevin R. Wilcox, Scott L. Collins, Alan K. Knapp, William T. Pockman, Melinda D. Smith and Yiqi Luo -- Large-scale sequence-based information : novel understanding of ecology and novel avenues to test ecological hypotheses / Achim Quaiser, Alexis Dufresne, Sophie Coudouel, Marine Biget and Philippe Vandenkoornhuyse -- Characterisation of biogeochemical processes at the micro-scale : concepts and applications of nanosims / Carsten W. Mueller, Laurent Remusat and Cornelia Rumpel -- Climate warming experiments : selecting the appropriate technique / Hans J. De Boeck and Ivan Nijs -- Remote sensing in the reflective spectrum : a powerful and applied technology for terrestrial ecosystem science / Arnon Karnieli -- A blueprint for a distributed terrestrial ecosystem research infrastructure / Heye Bogena, Harrie-Jan Hendricks Franssen, Carsten Montzka and Harry Vereecken -- Computational challenges in global environmental research infrastructures / Paul Martin, Yin Chen, Alex Hardisty, Keith Jeffery and Zhiming Zhao -- AEKOS : next generation online data and information infrastructure for the ecological science community / David J Turner, Anita K. Smyth, Craig M. Walker and Andrew J. Lowe -- The comprehensive and coordinated approach of geoss to ecosystem challenges / Antonello Provenzale and Stefano Nativi -- Advancing the software systems of environmental knowledge infrastructures -- Markus stocker -- Australia's terrestrial ecosystem research network (TERN), a network of networks approach to the building and maintaining of continental ecosystem research infrastructure / Nikki Thurgate Andrew J. Lowe and Timothy F. Clancy -- Community-driven efforts for joint development of environmental research infrastructures / Ari Asmi, Magdalena Brus and Sanna Sorvari -- Synthesis centres : their relevance to and importance in the anthropocene / Alison Specht -- The role of long-term experiments in understanding ecosystem response to global change / Henry H. Janzen and Benjamin H. Ellert -- The integrated carbon observation system (ICOS) : an infrastructure to monitor the European greenhouse gas balance / Bert Gielen, Ivan A. Jannsens, Maarten Op de Beeck, Denis Loustau, Reinhart Ceulemans, Armin Jordan and Dario Papale
