Digital transmission engineering
"Digital Transmission Engineering, Second Edition will provide first-year graduate students and engineers with the knowledge and the ability to perform real system design in the field of digital and mobile communications." "Based on proven teaching techniques, this text introduces the entire physical layer of digital communications in a measured and instructional format that integrates useful mathematics with implementation examples. Fully updated, this Second Edition brings key ideas, examples, and problems into line with the latest developments in digital communications, such as new wireless technologies and standards." "The author, John Anderson, has spent more than twenty-five years teaching digital communication techniques. He provides a balanced pedagogical approach to the underlying theory and design of the entire communication system." "Digital Transmission Engineering, Second Edition features ample homework problems, stimulating MATLAB-based computer exercises, and extensive design examples."--Jacket
This introduction to digital data transmission, modulation, and error-correction coding, together with the underlying communication and information theory is an all-inclusive text suitable for all those connected with Mechanical Engineering or Computer Science. Equal emphasis is given to underlying mathematical theory and engineering practice. Not meant to be an encyclopedic treatise, the book offers strong, accessible pedagogy. This Second Edition presents enhanced explanations of key ideas as well as additional examples and problems. It also provides greatly expanded coverage of wireless communication, which has seen exponential growth since the release of the first edition. . A pedagogocal approach aimed at the 5th year EE student. A balance of theory with engineering and design. Integration of important topics such as synchronization, radio channels, and wireless communication, which are left out of competing books, or lost in more lengthy formats
