Mixed-signal systems : a guide to CMOS circuit design
Preface -- Part I: Mixed Signals, Technology and Techniques -- 1. Continuous and Discrete Signals -- 2. Properties of Basic CMOS Cells -- 3. CMOS Circuit Fabrication -- 4. Digital Techniques -- 5. Analog VLSI Circuits -- Part II: Methods and Tools for Mixed Signal Circuit Design -- 6. One-Dimensional Signal Processing -- 7. Image Processing -- 8. Silicon Compilers -- References -- Index
A practical guide to the successful integration of digital and analog circuits Mixed-signal processing-the integration of digital and analog circuitry within computer systems-enables systems to take signals from the analog world and process them within a digital system. In fact, recent advances in VLSI technology performance now allow for the integration of digital and analog circuits on a single chip, a process that requires the use of analog pre- and post-processing systems such as converters, filters, sensors, drivers, buffers, and actuators. However, the lack of universal CAD tools for the synthesis, simulation, and layout of the analog part of the chip represents a design bottleneck of today's VLSI circuits. Mixed-Signal Systems: A Guide to CMOS Circuit Design presents a comprehensive general overview of the latest CMOS technology and covers the various computer systems that may be used for designing integrated circuits. Taking an original approach to one- and two-dimensional filter design, the author explores the many digital-oriented design systems, or silicon compilers, currently being used, and presents the basic methods, procedures, and tools used by each. In a thorough and systematic manner, the text: * Presents common features of digital-oriented design systems * Describes methods and tools that are not yet being applied in any compiler * Illustrates image processing systems that can be implemented on a single chip * Demonstrates the path from synthesis methods to the actual silicon assembly Essential reading for integrated circuit designers and developers of related computer programs, as well as advanced students of system design, this book represents an invaluable resource for anyone involved in the development of mixed-signal systems
