Biometrics : theory, methods, and applications
18. Multimodal Physiological Biometrics Authentication (Alessandro Riera, Aureli Soria-Frisch, Mario Caparrini, Ivan Cester, and Giulio Ruffini) -- 19. A Multiresolution Analysis of the Effect of Face Familiarity on Human Event-Related Potentials (Brett DeMarco and Evangelia Micheli-Tzanakou) -- 20. On-Line Signature-Based Authentication: Template Security Issues and Countermeasures (Patrizio Campisi, Emanuele Maiorana, and Alessandro Neri) -- 21. Unobtrusive Biometric Identification Based on Gait (Xiaxi Huang and Nikolaos V. Boulgouris) -- 22. Distributed Source Coding for Biometrics: A Case Study on Gait Recognition (Savvas Argyropoulos, Dimosthenis Ioannidis, Dimitrios Tzovaras, and Michael G. Strintzis) -- 23. Measuring Information Content in Biometric Features (Richard Youmaran and Andy Adler) -- 24. Decision-Making Support in Biometric-Based Physical Access Control Systems: Design Concept, Architecture, and Applications (Svetlana N. Yanushkevich, Vlad P. Shmerko, Oleg Boulanov, and Adrian Stoica) -- 25. Privacy in Biometrics (Stelvio Cimato, Marco Gamassi, Vincenzo Piuri, Roberto Sassi, and Fabio Scotti) -- 26. Biometric Encryption: The New Breed of Untraceable Biometrics (Ann Cavoukian and Alex Stoianov) -- Index
Preface -- Contributors -- 1. Discriminant Analysis for Dimensionality Reduction: An Overview of Recent Developments (Jieping Ye and Shuiwang Ji) -- 2. A Taxonomy of Emerging Multilinear Discriminant Analysis Solutions for Biometric Signal Recognition (Haiping Lu, Konstantinos N. Plataniotis, and Anastasios N. Venetsanopoulos) -- 3. A Comparative Survey on Biometric Identity Authentication Techniques Based on Neural Networks (Raghudeep Kannavara and Nikolaos Bourbakis) -- 4. Designing Classifiers for Fusion-Based Biometric Verification (Kritha Venkataramani and B. V. K. Vijaya Kumar) -- 5. Person-Specific Characteristic Feature Selection for Face Recognition (Sreekar Krishna, Vineeth Balasubramanian, John Black, and Sethuraman Panchanathan) -- 6. Face Verification Based on Elastic Graph Matching (Anastasios Tefas and Ioannis Pitas) -- 7. Combining Geometrical and Statistical Models for Video-Based Face Recognition (Amit K. Roy-Chowdhury and Yilei Xu) -- 8. A Biologically Inspired Model for the Simultaneous Recognition of Identity and Expression (Donald Neth and Aleix M. Martinez) -- 9. Multimodal Biometrics Based on Near-Infrared Face Recognition (Rui Wang, Shengcai Liao, Zhen Lei, and Stan Z. Li) -- 10. A Novel Unobtrusive Face and Hand Geometry Authentication System Based on 2D and 3D Data (Filareti Tsalakanidou and Sotiris Malassiotis) -- 11. Learning Facial Aging Models: A Face Recognition Perspective (Narayanan Ramanathan and Rama Chellappa) -- 12. Super-Resolution of Face Images (Sung Won Park and Marios Savvides) -- 13. Iris Recognition (Yung-Hui Li and Marios Savvides) -- 14. Learning in Fingerprints (Alessandra Lumini, Loris Nanni, and Davide Maltoni) -- 15. A Comparison of Classification- and Indexing-Based Approaches for Fingerprint Identification (Xuejun Tan, Bir Bhanu, and Rong Wang) -- 16. Electrocardiogram (ECG) Biometric for Robust Identification and Secure Communication (Francis Minhthang Bui, Foteini Agrafioti, and Dimitrios Hatzinakos) -- 17. The Heartbeat: The Living Biometric (Steven A. Israel, John M. Irvine, Brenda K. Wiederhold, and Mark D. Wiederhold)
