Open process frameworks : patterns for the adaptive e-enterprise : with a case study in contract labor management
Praise for Open Process Frameworks"From a customer experience standpoint, this conceptual approach to business design is a winner!" -Patricia Seybold, coauthor of Customers.com and The Customer Revolution "Marca illustrates . . . how the Internet can be used to create adaptive enterprises that dynamically change their processes, their rules, and their workers as their needs continually change. This book gives an enlightening glimpse of dramatic business opportunities now open to us." -Tom Malone, PhD, Patrick J. McGovern Professor of Management, MIT Sloan School of Management "Marca's Open Process Frameworks presents the essential business architecture to enable corporate adaptability in the twenty-first century . . . Every executive, manager, architect, process engineer, and project manager in every company should read this book." -Bill Welch, Vice President of Administration, CDI Corporation "Regardless of where you may be in the evolution of the technology approach Marca describes, you will find this book useful. It gives us a glimpse into how technology will affect the way we all do business in the current e-Age."-Sam Rossa, Senior Vice President of Sales, Tandem Staffing Solutions, Incorporated"Marca provides a directive . . . for how an organization can capture, adapt, control, and measure its business processes. This strikes me as doing e-business the right way."-Clement McGowan, PhD, Senior Principal Scientist, Mitretek Systems, Incorporated "Marca leverages the concept of Open Systems to develop the concept of Open Process . . . to describe how a company operates in terms of building blocks which support adaptable and optimized Internet-based solutions."-Matt Yuschik, PhD, Mike Vannata, PhD, Jim Kilmurray, PhD, The University of Phoenix"Marca captures the essence and magnitude of our managed staffing program at Siemens Westinghouse. Using these frameworks, Marca designed an effective solution for us, which meant the difference between success and failure for our $100 million program." -Dave Smith, Department Head, Indirect Supply Management, America, Siemens Westinghouse "In my nearly forty years of supply chain dynamics in the intangible fields of service and contract labor, I never thought I would see the day of what Marca helped bring together for our contract labor management program." -Jim Stellhorn, Senior Procurement Specialist, Siemens Westinghouse A key resource for e-business successWritten from the standpoint of business adaptability an ...
