Caribbean popular culture : power, politics and performance
Examines the Caribbean popular - an idea that has been an important and contested terrain for exploring the dynamic and oftentimes subversive cultural expressions of the region. The Caribbean popular arts, whether embodied in the hybrid musical genres or vernacular performance and festival traditions, have historically provided a space for social and political critique, the performance of visibility and also articulations of a temporal emancipatory ethos with its attendant acquisition of power and status. Beyond the spaces of the local/regional enactments and the social realities out of which they emerged and continue to circulate, Caribbean popular culture has over time contributed to contemporary understandings of global and diasporic cultures and, at the same time, the dynamics of inter-cultural encounters. The terrain of the popular has been a generative site for the study of Caribbean societies, and has produced enduring theoretical postulations that have been pivotal to the shaping of the intellectual production on the Caribbean. It is also the most powerful force that socializes contemporary Caribbean citizens into an understanding of their identities, the limits of their citizenship, and the meaning of their worlds
Acknowledgements -- Publishers' acknowledgements -- Caribbean popular culture: power, politics and performance, an introduction. Framing the popular : Rethinking "aesthetics:" notes towards a deciphering practice / Sylvia Wynter -- Notes on deconstructing "the popular" / Stuart Hall -- The indigenous movement / Michael Dash -- Imaginary dialogue on folklore / Rogelio Martínez Furé -- Popular art and cultural freedom / Hilary Beckles -- Erotic maroonage: embodying emancipation in Jamaican dancehall culture / Carolyn Cooper -- The Calypsonian as artist: freedom and responsibility / Gordon Rohlehr. Language and orality : Poetry and knowledge / Aimé Césaire -- History of the voice: the development of nation language in Anglophone Caribbean poetry (excerpt) / Kamau Brathwaite -- Natural poetics, forced poetics / Édouard Glissant -- Joking: the training of the man-of-words in talking broad / Roger Abrahams -- Globalization and the language of Rastafari / Velma Pollard -- Discourse on the logic of language / Marlene Nourbese Philip -- Me cyaan believe it / Michael Smith. The Caribbean sacred arts : Thrones of the Orichas: Afro-Cuban altars in New Jersey, New York, and Havana / David H. Brown -- Without one ritual note: folklore performance and the Haitian state, 1935-1946 / Kate Ramsey -- Atis rezistans: Gede and the art of vagabondaj / Katherine Smith -- From the stage to the grave: exploring celebrity funerals in dancehall culture / Donna P. Hope -- Muñecas and memoryscapes: negotiating identity and understanding history in Cuban espiritismo / Carrie Viarnés -- From bush to stage: the shifting performing geography of Haitian rara and Cuban gagá / Yanique Hume. Visuality and the Caribbean imaginary : The evidence of things not photographed: slavery and historical memory in the British West Indies / Krista Thompson -- curating carnival? Performance in contemporary Caribbean art and the paradox of performance art in contemporary art / Claire Tancons -- From mythologies to realities: the iconography of Ras Daniel Heartman / Ama -- Intuitive art as a canon / Verle Poupeye -- Africa, the West and the analogy of culture: the cinematic text after man / Sylvia Wynter. Caribbean masquerade and festival politics : The invention of traditional mas and the politics of gender / Pamela R. Franco -- Rara in New York City: transnational popular culture / Elizabeth McAllister -- Performing religion: folklore performance, Carnaval and festival in Cuba / Judith Bettelheim -- Muharram moves west: exploring the absent-present / Aisha Khan -- Surviving secularization: masking the spirit in the Jankunu (John Canoe) festivals of the Caribbean / Kenneth Bilby -- The Carriacou Mas' as "syncretic artifact" / Joan Fayer and Joan F. McMurray. Music and popular consciousness : On interpreting popular music: Zouk in the West Indies / Jocelyn Guilbault -- States of emergency: Reggae representations of the Jamaican Nation State / Nadi Edwards -- Anraje to angaje: Carnival politics and music in Haiti / Gage Averill -- Black music in a raceless society: Afrocuban folklore and socialism / Robin Moore -- Love, sex, and gender / Deborah Pacini Hernández -- Transnational soca performances, gendered re-narrations of Caribbean nationalism / Susan Harewood -- Timba brava: Maroon music in Cuba / Umi Vaughan. The Caribbean creative : The creative economy and creative entrepreneurship in the Caribbean / Keith Nurse -- Globalisation and commercialisation of Caribbean music / Mike Alleyne -- Literary arts and book publishing in the Anglophone Caribbean / Suzanne Burke -- Development, "culture," and the promise of modern progress / Deborah A. Thomas. References
