Practical lighting design with LEDs
Figures -- Preface -- 1 Practical Introduction to LEDs -- What Is an LED? -- Small LEDs versus Power Devices -- Phosphors versus RGB -- Inside an LED -- Is an LED Right for My Application? -- Haitz's Law(s) -- The Wild West -- LEDs and OLEDs and . . . ? -- 2 Light Bulbs and Lighting Systems -- Light Sources -- Characteristics of Light Sources -- Types of Bulbs -- History of Lighting -- Lighting Systems -- 3 Practical Introduction to Light -- The Power of Light -- Radiometric versus Photometric -- Luminous Intensity, Illuminance, and Luminance (or Candela, Lux, and Nits) -- What Color White? -- Color Rendition: How the Light Looks versus How Objects Look -- 4 Practical Characteristics of LEDs -- Current, Not Voltage -- Forward Voltage -- Reverse Breakdown -- Not Efficiency-Effi cacy! -- LED Optical Spectra -- Overdriving LEDs -- Key Datasheet Parameters -- Binning -- The Tolerance Game -- 5 Practical Thermal Performance of LEDs -- Mechanisms Behind Thermal Shifts -- Electrical Behavior of LEDs With Temperature -- Optical Behavior of LEDs With Temperature -- Other Performance Shifts With Temperature -- LED Lifetime: Lumen Degradation -- LED Lifetime: Catastrophic Failure -- Paralleling LEDs -- 6 Practical Thermal Management of LEDs -- Introduction to Thermal Analysis -- Calculation of Thermal Resistance -- The Ambient -- Practical Estimation of Temperature -- Heat Sinks -- Fans -- Radiation Enhancement -- Removing Heat from the Drive Circuitry -- 7 Practical DC Drive Circuitry for LEDs -- Basic Ideas -- Battery Basics -- Overview of SMPS -- Buck -- Boost -- Buck-Boost -- Input Voltage Limit -- Dimming -- Ballast Lifetime -- Arrays -- 8 Practical AC Drive Circuitry for LEDs -- Safety -- Which AC? -- Rectification -- Topology Selection -- Nonisolated Circuitry -- Isolation -- Component Selection -- EMI -- Power Factor Correction -- Lightning -- Dimmers -- Ripple Current Effects on LEDs -- Lifetime -- UL, Energy Star, and All That -- 9 Practical System Design With LEDs
PCB Design -- Getting the Light Out -- LEDs in Harsh Environments -- Designing With the Next Generation LED in Mind -- Lighting Control -- 10 Practical Examples -- Example: Designing an LED Flashlight -- Example: Designing a USB Light -- Example: Designing an Automobile Taillight -- Example: Designing an LED Light Bulb -- 11 Practical Measurement of LEDs and Lighting -- Measuring Light Output -- LED Measurement Standards -- Measuring LED Temperature -- Measuring Thermal Resistance -- Measuring Power, Power Factor, and Efficiency -- Accelerated Life Tests -- 12 Practical Modeling of LEDs -- Preliminaries -- Practical Overview of Spice Modeling -- What Not to Do -- What to Do -- Modeling Forward Voltage -- Reverse Breakdown -- Modeling Optical Output -- Modeling Temperature Effects -- Modeling the Thermal Environment -- A Thermal Transient -- Some Comments on Modeling -- References -- Index -- IEEE Press Series on Power Engineering
"This book covers all of the information needed to design LEDs into end-products. It is a practical guide, primarily explaning how things are done by practicing engineers. Equations are used only for practical calculations, and are kept to the level of high-school algebra. There are numerous drawings and schematics showing how things such as measurements are actually made, and showing curcuits that actually work. There are practical notes and examples embedded in the text that give pointers and how-to guides on many of the book's topics. After reading each chapter of the book, readers will have the knowledge to implement practical designs. This book will be kept as a reference tool for years to come"--
