Software maintenance management : evaluation and continuous improvement
The only authoritative reference to provide a management perspective of software maintenanceSoftware maintenance accounts for 60-90% of software life-cycle costs, and unfortunately, very little attention is given to software maintenance education, training, and research. Now, two experts in the field explain how understanding software maintenance, implementing best practices, and improving its processes can help software managers to dramatically cut costs.Software Maintenance Management explores the domain of software maintenance management and provides road maps for improving software maintenance organizations. It describes full maintenance maturity models organized by levels 1, 2, and 3, which allow for benchmarking and continuous improvement paths. Goals for each key practice area are also provided, and the model presented is fully aligned with the architecture and framework of software development maturity models of CMMI and ISO 15504.Complete with case studies, figures, tables, and graphs, Software Maintenance Management fills the need for a comprehensive and authoritative reference on the subject for maintenance managers, software managers, systems analysts, quality managers, and quality analysts. It alsoserves as a valuable textbook for advanced undergraduate and graduate courses in softwareengineering, software maintenance, software process improvement, and software benchmarking
1. Maintenance issues and related management approaches -- 2. Maturity models in software engineering -- 3. Foundations of the S3mª process model -- 4. Process management domain -- 5. Event/request management domain -- 6. Evolution engineering domain -- 7. Support for the evolution engineering domain -- 8. Exemplary practices - process management -- 9. Exemplary practices - event/request management domain -- 10. Exemplary practices - evolution engineering domain -- 11. Exemplary practices - support to evolution domain -- 12. Assessment process, assessment tool, and care studies of the use of S3mª -- 13. Summary
