Frontiers in electromagnetics
Preface. List of Contributors. GEOMETRY, TOPOLOGY, AND GROUPS. Fractal Electrodynamics: Surfaces and Superlattices (D. Jaggard, et al.). Fractal-Shaped Antennas (C. Puente, et al.). The Theory and Design of Fractal Antenna Arrays (D. Werner, et al.). Target Symmetry and the Scattering Dyadic (C. Baum). Complementary Structures in Two Dimensions (C. Baum). Topology in Electromagnetics (G. Marsh). The Electrodynamics of Torus Knots (D. Werner). OPTIMIZATION AND ESTIMATION. Biological Beamforming (R. Haupt, et al.). Model-Order Reduction in Electromagnetics Using Model-Based Parameter Estimation (E. Miller & T. Sarkar). Adaptive Decomposition in Electromagnetics (J. Burns & N. Subotic). ANALYTICAL METHODS. Lommel Expansions in Electromagnetics (D. Werner). Fractional Paradigm in Electromagnetic Theory (N. Engheta). Spherical-Multipole Analysis in Electromagnetics (S. Blume & L. Klinkenbusch). NUMERICAL METHODS. A Systematic Study of Perfectly Matched Absorbers (M. Kuzuoglu & R. Mittra). Fast Calculation of Interconnect Capacitances Using the Finite Difference Model Applied in Conjunction with the Perfectly Matched Layer (PML) Approach for Mesh Truncation (V. Veremey & R. Mittra). Finite-Difference Time-Domain Methodologies for Electromagnetic Wave Propagation in Complex Media (J. Young). A New Computational Electromagnetics Method Based on Discrete Mathematics (R. Diaz, et al.). Artificial Bianisotropic Composites (F. Mariotte, et al.). Index. About the Editors
"FRONTIERS IN ELECTROMAGNETICS is the first all-in-one resource to bring in-depth original papers on today's major advances in long-standing electromagnetics problems. Highly regarded editors Douglas H. Werner and Raj Mittra have meticulously selected new contributed papers from preeminent researchers in the field to provide state-of-the-art discussions on emerging areas of electromagnetics. Antenna and microwave engineers and students will find key insights into current trends and techniques of electromagnetics likely to shape future directions of this increasingly important topic. Each chapter includes a comprehensive analysis and ample references on innovative subjects that range from combining electromagnetic theory with mathematical concepts to the most recent techniques in electromagnetic optimization and estimation. The contributors also present the latest developments in analytical and numerical methods for solving electromagnetics problems. With a level of expertise unmatched in the field, FRONTIERS IN ELECTROMAGNETICS provides readers with a solid foundation to understand this rapidly changing area of technology. Topics covering fast-developing applications in electromagnetics include: * Fractal electrodynamics, fractal antennas and arrays, and scattering from fractally rough surfaces * Knot electrodynamics * The role of group theory and symmetry * Fractional calculus * Lommel and multiple expansions. Professors: To request an examination copy simply e-mail collegeadoption@ieee.org." Sponsored by: IEEE Microwave Theory and Techniques Society, IEEE Antennas and Propagation Society
