The Routledge companion to Asian American media
Lori Kido Lopez and Vincent N. Pham, Introduction: why Asian American media matters -- Theorizing representation: visions and voices of Asian America. Ming-Yuen S. Ma, Claiming a voice: speech, voice, and subjectivity in early Asian American independent media -- Grace Wang, Diasporic soundscapes of belonging: mediating Chineseness with Shanghai restoration project -- Jun Okada, Collectivity and loneliness in Laurel Nakadate's post-racial identity aesthetics -- Vincent N. Pham, Asian American media public vernaculars: debating the state of Asian American media -- Asian American media production: perspectives from scholar-practitioners. Brian Hu, The coin of the realm: valuing the Asian American feature-length film -- Vanessa Au, Using the tools of the YouTube generation: how to serve communities through Asian American film festivals -- Elaine H. Kim, Overcoming barriers to representation: lessons from Asian american women directors -- Valerie Soe, Perpetual foreigners in America: transnationalism and transformations of Asian American cultural identities in three documentary films -- Hybrid Asian Americans: media at the margins. Eve Oishi, Queer experimental Asian American film -- Kimberly D. McKee, Rewriting history: adoptee documentaries as a site of truth-telling -- Leilani Nishime, Stunning: digital portraits of mixed race families from Slate to Tumblr -- Myra Washington, Black/Asian hybridities: multiracial Asian/Americans on the voice -- Asian American new media: digital artifacts, networks and lives -- Lori Kido Lopez, Asian America gone viral: a genealogy of Asian American YouTubers and memes -- L.S. Kim, Asian America on demand: Asian Americans, media networks, and a matrix stage -- Rachel Kuo, Reflections on #solidarity: intersectional movements in AAPI communities -- Takeo Rivera, Ordering a new world biopower in world of warcraft mists of pandaria -- Expanding the borders of Asian America: diaspora and transnationalism. Tony Tran, Vietnamese diasporic films and the construction of dysfunctional transnational families: the rebel and owl and the sparrow -- David C. Oh, Constructing Korean America: Koream journal and the construction of second-generation Korean American diasporic identifications -- Shilpa Davé, South Asians and the call center narrative: accents and cross cultural communication in tv's outsourced -- Cecilia S. Uy-Tioco, Transnational ties: elite Filipino migrants and polymedia environments
