Energy harvesting for low-power autonomous devices and systems
Preface -- 1. Energy harvesting: 1.1. Introduction; 1.2. Thermal-to-electrical-based energy harvesting; 1.3. Solar-to-electrical-based energy harvesting; 1.4. Radio-frequency-to-electrical-based energy harvesting; 1.5. Sources of energy from human activity; 1.6. Mechanical-to-electrical-based energy harvesting; References -- 2. Mechanical-to-electrical energy conversion transducers: 2.1. Introduction; 2.2. Piezoelectric transducers; 2.3. Electromagnetic induction transducers; 2.4. Electrostatic transducers; 2.5. Magnetostrictive-material-based transducers; 2.6. General comparison of different transducers; 2.7. Transducer shelf life and operational life; References -- 3. Mechanical-to-electrical energy transducer interfacing mechanisms: 3.1. Introduction; 3.2. Interfacing mechanisms for piezoelectric-based transducers; 3.3. Interfacing mechanisms for electromagnetic-based transducers; 3.4. Interfacing mechanisms for electrostatic- and magnetostrictive-based transducers; References -- 4. Collection and conditioning circuits: 4.1. Introduction; 4.2. Collection and conditioning circuits for piezoelectric transducers; 4.3. Collection and conditioning circuits for electromagnetic energy harvesters; 4.4. Collection and conditioning circuits for electrostatic energy harvesters; 4.5. Conditioning circuits for vibration-based magnetostrictive energy harvesters; References --
5. Case studies: 5.1. Introduction; 5.2. Commercial vibration energy harvesters; 5.3. Tire pressure monitoring system; 5.4. Self-powered wireless sensors; 5.5. Piezoelectric energy-harvesting power sources for gun-fired munitions and similar applications; 5.6. Self-powered shock-loading-event detection with safety logic circuit and applications; References -- Index
"This book is an introductory text describing methods of harvesting electrical energy from mechanical potential and kinetic energy. The book focuses on the methods of transferring mechanical energy to energy conversion transducers of various types, including piezoelectric, electromagnetic, electrostatic, and magnetostrictive transducers. Methods that have been developed for collecting, conditioning, and delivering the generated electrical energy to a load, as well as their potential use as self-powered sensors are described. The book should be of interest to those who want to know the potentials as well as shortcomings of energy harvesting technology. The book is particularly useful for energy harvesting system designers as it provides a systematic approach to the selection of the proper transduction mechanisms and methods of interfacing with a host system and electrical energy collection and conditioning options. An extensive bibliography is provided to direct the reader to appropriate references for detailed material not included in the book"--
