The Cambridge companion to literature and science
"In 1959, C. P. Snow lamented the presence of 'two cultures': the unbridgeable chasm of understanding, and knowledge between modern literature and modern science. Over the past twenty years, scholars in literature and science studies have worked diligently to interrogate relations between twentieth- and twenty-first-century literature and science as radically alienated from each other. The Cambridge Companion to Literature and Science offers a roadmap to developments which have contributed to the emergence of reciprocal connections between the two areas of study. Weaving together theory and empiricism, individual chapters explore major figures - Shakespeare, Bacon, Darwin, Henry James, William James, Einstein; major genres - fiction, science fiction, poetry, dramatic works, science studies; and major theories and movements - pragmatism, critical theory, cognitive science, ecocriticism, cultural studies, affect theory, digital humanities, and empiricism. This book will be a key resource for scholars, graduate students, and undergraduate students alike"--
"The Cambridge Companion to Literature and Science offers twenty-first-century readers a roadmap to the many robust developments that have contributed, at both the individual scholar and community-of-scholars levels, to the emergence of a great variety of approaches to the reciprocity between literature and science - whose absence Rousseau lamented as a missed opportunity even as he hailed it as a largely unrealized possibility. Yet the reciprocity in question is also more than that. As has become clear, especially in the context of parallel developments in STS (Science and Technology Studies), another moniker for science studies, second-wave Literature and Science, unlike its predecessor, isn't just concerned with literature and science or even literatures and sciences"--
Machine generated contents note: Introduction Steven Meyer; Part I. Glimpses of Present and Future: Literature and Science Studies: 1. Science fiction to science studies Isabelle Stengers; Part II. Snapshots of The Past: Literature and Science: 2. Shakespeare and modern science Mary Baine Campbell; 3. Darwin and literature Devin Griffiths; 4. William James, Henry James, and the impact of science Joan Richardson; 5. Empson's Einstein: science and modern reading Kitt Price; Part III. In Theory: Literary Studies and Science Studies: 6. Science studies and literary theory Hugh Crawford; 7. From writing science to digital humanities Haun Saussy and Tim Lenoir; 8. Science studies as cultural studies James J. Bono; 9. Reading affect: literature and science after Klein and Tomkins Adam Frank; Part IV. In Practice: Literary Studies and Science: 10. The global turn: Thoreau and the sixth extinction Wai Chee Dimock; 11. Literary studies and cognitive science Alan Richardson; 12. Modernism, technology, and the life sciences Tim Armstrong; 13. The long history of cognitive practices: literacy, numeracy, aesthetics Reviel Netz; Futures past and present: literature and science in an age of Whitehead Steven Meyer
