Globalisation and change in forest ownership and forest use : natural resource management in transition
Introduction / E. Carina H. Keskitalo -- Is there a new European forest owner? The institutional context / E. Carina Keskitalo, Gun Lidestav, Heimo Karppinen, and Ivana Živojinović -- Individual forest owners in context / Kerstin Westin, Louise Eriksson, Gun Lidestav, Heimo Karppinen, Katarina Haugen, and Annika Nordlund -- Interactions between forest owners and their forests / Gun Lidestav, Camilla Thellbro, Per Sandström, Torgny Lind, Einar Holm, Olof Olsson, Kerstin Westin, Heimo Karppinen, and Andrej Ficko -- Is there an end to the concentration of businesses and people? / Urban Lindgren, Jonathan Borggren, Svante Karlsson, Rikard H Eriksson, and Bram Timmermans -- Rural-urban policies: changing conceptions of the human-environment relationship / E. Carina H. Keskitalo, Svante Karlsson, Urban Lindgren, Örjan Pettersson, Linda Lundmark, Bill Slee, Mariann Villa, and Diana Feliciano -- Multi-level planning and conflicting interests in the forest landscape / Olof Stjernström, Rein Ahas, Sabina Bergstén, Jeannette Eggers, Hando Hain, Svante Karlsson, E. Carina H. Keskitalo, Tomas Lämås, Örjan Pettersson, Per Sandström, and Karin Öhman -- Forests in common and their contribution to local development / Gun Lidestav, Nevenka Bogataj, Paola Gatto, Anna Lawrence, Olof Stjernström, and Jenny Wong -- Conclusions: new forest owners under globalised, rural-urban relations / E. Carina H. Keskitalo
"This book describes the changing landscape of European forest ownership and explores the impact a new, often urban, generation of forest owners may have on the future of one of our most basic resources--forests. Forests have not played a major role in rural studies thus far, however they constitute an important part of many rural areas. Drawing on Swedish cases and comparison cases from various other areas of Europe, the authors present these 'new forest owners' as a pivotal factor in the changing relationships between urban and rural life. The chapters explore how forest production, the relationship to the environment, urban-rural relations and local communities have already changed as well as discussing what might be expected for the future. A result of work in the Swedish research programme PLURAL and related projects, such as the EU Cost Action FACESMAP, this volume will be of interest to scholars of forestry and rural studies, as well as to researchers in environmental, population and globalization studies more broadly"--Back cover
