Radiative properties of semiconductors
Optical properties, particularly in the infrared range of wavelengths, continue to be of enormous interest to both material scientists and device engineers. The need for the development of standards for data of optical properties in the infrared range of wavelengths is very timely considering the on-going transition of nano-technology from fundamental R&D to manufacturing. The recent progress in two-dimensional materials is an example of this evolution in materials science and engineering. Radiative properties play a critical role in the processing, process control and manufacturing of semiconductor materials, devices, circuits and systems. The design and implementation of real-time, non-contact process monitoring and control methods in manufacturing, such as multi-wavelength imaging pyrometry, spectroscopic ellipsometry and reflectometry, require the knowledge of the radiative properties of materials. The design and manufacturing of sensors, imagers, waveguides, filters, antireflection coatings and lenses, operating in the infrared range of wavelengths, requires a reliable database of the radiative properties of materials. This book reviews the optical properties of various semiconductors in the infrared range of wavelengths. Some fundamental and experimental studies of the radiative properties of semiconductors are presented. Previous studies, potential applications and future developments are outlined. In chapter 1, an introduction to the radiative properties is presented. A brief overview of the optical and thermal properties is presented in chapter 2. Examples of the instrumentation for the measurements of the radiative properties are described in chapter 3. In chapters 4-13, case studies of the radiative properties of several semiconductors are elucidated. The modeling and applications of these properties are explained in chapters 14 and 15, respectively. In chapter 16, examples of the global infrastructure for these measurements are illustrated.
