The Cambridge companion to Dracula
Machine generated contents note: Notes on Contributors; Note on the Text; Chronology; Introduction Roger Luckhurst; Part I. Dracula in the Gothic Tradition: 1. Dracula's Pre-History: The Advent of the Vampire Nick Groom; 2. Dracula's Debts to the Gothic Romance William Hughes; 3. Dracula and the Late Victorian Gothic Revival Alex Warwick; Part II. Contexts: 4. Dracula and the Occult Christine Ferguson; 5. Dracula and Psychology Roger Luckhurst; 6. Dracula and Sexology Heike Bauer; 7. Dracula in the Age of Mass Migration David Glover; 8. Dracula and the East Matthew Gibson; 9. Dracula's Blood Anthony Bale; 10. Dracula and Women Carol Senf; Part III. New Directions: 11. Dracula Queered Xavier Aldana Reyes; 12. Dracula and New Horror Theory Mark Blacklock; 13. Transnational Draculas Ken Gelder; Part IV. Adaptations: 14. Dracula on Stage Catherine Wynne; 15. Dracula on Film 1931-1959 Alison Peirse; 16. Dracula on Film and TV, 1960 to present Stacey Abbott; Guide to Further Reading; Index
"Bram Stoker's Dracula is the most famous vampire in literature and film. This new collection of sixteen essays brings together a range of internationally renowned scholars to provide a series of pathways through this celebrated Gothic novel and its innumerable adaptations and translations. The volume illuminates the novel's various pre-histories, critical contexts and subsequent cultural transformations. Chapters explore literary history, Gothic revival scholarship, folklore, anthropology, psychology, sexology, philosophy, occultism, cultural history, critical race theory, theatre and film history, and the place of the vampire in Europe and beyond. These studies provide an accessible guide of cutting-edge scholarship to one of the most celebrated modern Gothic horror stories. This Companion will serve as a key resource for scholars, teachers and students interested in the enduring force of Dracula and the seemingly inexhaustible range of the contexts it requires and readings it might generate"--
