Jewish education from Antiquity to the Middle Ages : studies in honour of Philip S. Alexander
Introduction -- aspects of education in the sectarian scrolls from the qumran -- Caves / George J. Brooke -- Could Jesus Really Read? Literacy in Roman Galilee / Sean Freyne -- Paideia in the Fourth Book of Maccabees / Tessa Rajak -- The Shaping of Memory: Josephus on Agrippa II in Jerusalem / Martin Goodman -- Pedagogues and Primary Teachers, from Paul to the Mishnah / William Horbury -- The Aramaic Targum and its Ancient Jewish Scholarly Environment / Robert Hayward -- Educational Features in Ancient Jewish Literature: An Overview of Unknowns / Alexander Samely -- Anecdotal Evidence: Memory, Tradition and Text in Early Christianity -- And the hellenistic schools / Loveday C. A. Alexander -- God as the Educator of Humanity: Some Voices from the Syriac Tradition / Sebastian P. Brock -- Liturgy as an Educational Process in Talmudic and Medieval Judaism / Stefan C. Reif -- Learning to Read Biblical Hebrew in the Middle Ages: The Transition from Oral Standard to Written Standard / Geoffrey Khan -- Glossary of Difficult Words in the Babylonian Talmud (Seder Mo'ed) on a Rotulus / Judith Olszowy-Schlanger -- A Jewish Charm for Memory and Understanding / Gideon Bohak -- Preaching to his Daughter: Jacob Anatoli's Goad for Students (Malmad ha-talmidim) / Renate Smithuis -- Entering the Field of Philosophy: Provence, Mid-Fourteenth Century / Colette Sirat -- Philip S. Alexander's Bibliography
In Jewish Education from Antiquity to the Middle Ages fifteen scholars offer specialist studies on Jewish education from the areas of their expertise. This tightly themed volume in honour of Philip S. Alexander has some essays that look at individual manuscripts, some that consider larger literary corpora, and some that are more thematically organised. Jewish education has been addressed largely as a matter of the study house, the bet midrash. Here a richer range of texts and themes discloses a wide variety of activity in several spheres of Jewish life. In addition, some notable non-Jewish sources provide a wider context for the discourse than is often the case
