Plant microbiome: stress response : Dilfuza Egamberdieva, Parvaiz Ahmad, editors
Chapter 1. Diversity, Functions and Stress Responses of Soil Microorganisms -- Chapter 2. Harnessing the plant microbiome for improved abiotic stress tolerance -- Chapter 3. Plant growth promotion and biocontrol mediated by plant-associated bacteria -- Chapter 4. Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi and plant stress tolerance -- Chapter 5. Trichoderma: beneficial role in sustainable agriculture by plant disease management -- Chapter .  Role of secondary metabolites from plant growth promoting rhizobacteria in combating salinity stress -- Chapter 7. Plant hormones as key regulators in plant-microbe-interactions under salt stress -- Chapter 8. Nitric Oxide as a Signalling Molecule in Plant-Bacterial Interactions -- Chapter 9. Quorum sensing: melody beneath the ground -- Chapter 10. From interaction to gene induction an eco-friendly mechanism of PGPR-mediated stress management in the plant -- Chapter 11. Predisposition of crop plants to stress is directly related to their DNA health -- Chapter 12. Legume, microbiome and regulatory functions of miRNAs in systematic regulation of symbiosis.-  Chapter 13. Plant-microbe-metal Interactions: Basics, Recent Advances and Future Trends -- Chapter 14. Potential of endophytic bacteria in heavy metal and pesticide detoxification -- Chapter 15.  Bacterial siderophores in metal detoxification: recent advances and strategies
This book presents state-of-the-art research on the many facets of the plant microbiome, including diversity, ecology, physiology and genomics, as well as molecular mechanisms of plant-microbe interactions. Topics considered include the importance of microbial secondary metabolites in stimulating plant growth, induced systemic resistance, tolerance to abiotic stress, and biological control of plant pathogens. The respective contributions show how microbes help plants to cope with abiotic stresses, and represent significant progress toward understanding the complex regulatory networks critical to host-microbe interaction and plant adaptation in extreme environments. New insights into the mechanisms of microbial actions in inducing plant stress tolerance open new doors for improving the efficacy of microbial strategies, and could produce new ways of economically increasing crop yields without harming the environment. As such, this book offers an essential resource for students and researchers with an interest in plant-microbe interaction, as well as several possibilities for employing the plant microbiome in the enhancement of crop productivity under future climate change scenarios
