Serving online requests with mobile resources
Abstract: Resource allocation problems have a large variety of applications in different areas of computer  science and operations research. A resource allocation problem seeks to find an optimal  allocation of a given type of expensive or limited resource to a set of clients that request  the services of the given resource. Some of these problems have an online nature: The requests  sequence is not revealed at the beginning, but the requests arrive in an online fashion.  An algorithm for an online resource allocation problem must make its decision in response  to a newly arriving request in an online fashion, i.e., typically before the subsequent request  arrives. Depending on the definition of an online resource allocation problem, it might be allowed  to postpone serving a request or to change an already made decision. However in this  case, postponing a service and changing a decision come at a cost.  In this thesis, we also study online allocation problems in the distributed setting, where  in contrast to a centralized system, there is no central unit that controls everything and that  is aware of the global state of the system. In addition to the uncertainty about the request  sequence arising from the online arrivals, there is also uncertainty at each node in the network  because the node does not directly learn about requests arriving in other parts of the network.  The nodes of a distributed system therefore need to communicate in order to coordinate their  actions and one typically assumes that this communication does not come for free.  Two online problems are mainly studied in this thesis. First, we consider the distributed  queuing problem as a basic problem that coordinates mutually exclusive access to shared data  in distributed systems. We devise a randomized distributed queuing algorithm with an expected  competitive ratio of O(log n) on general network topologies. We utilize the well-known  probabilistic tree embedding of Fakcharoenphol, Rao, and Talwar [STOC 2003] that approximates  the distances of a general metric space by mapping it to a special family of tree topologies  known as hierarchically well-separated trees and often just referred to as HSTs. Our  randomized distributed queuing algorithm is obtained by running the ARROW algorithm—a  well-known distributed queuing algorithm—on top of the HST that is produced by applying  the above embedding to the distances of the underlying network. It is shown that (under some  assumptio ...
