Description of surveillance and monitoring systems on AMU and AMR in European countries and comparison of antimicrobial use and resistance data on clinical and non-clinical E. coli isolates from livestock in countries
The objective of this work was to: (a) Describe surveillance and monitoring systems on AMU and AMR in European countries. (b) Describe and compare resistance data of clinical and non-clinical E. coli isolates from livestock in countries. (c) Describe the association of AMU and year with AMR. (d) Provide recommendations for improved One Health" surveillance at the European level. A literature search was conducted in 2018 to identify relevant peer-reviewed articles and reports on AMU and AMR. It was used for identifying and assessing monitoring and surveillance systems on AMU and AMR in the human and animal sectors and foodborne AMR in six European countries (Germany, France, Spain, The Netherlands, The United Kingdom and Norway). Logistic regression analyses were performed comparing phenotypical data on clinical and non-clinical E. coli isolates of several animal categories from 2014 to 2017 at national and international level. AMU was only included in the national study as we found no approach to overcome the lack of harmonisation on AMU across countries. The Normalized Resistance Interpretation (NRI) method, a statistical approach, was applied to overcome the lack of harmonization on the laboratory methods and procedures in the international study. This work identified overlaps on monitoring and surveillance systems on AMU and AMR in the human and animal sector. A lack of harmonisation was encountered on: (a) Antimicrobial usage for livestock and, therefore, between humans and livestock and (b) AMR in clinical isolates of livestock and, therefore, between clinical and non-clinical isolates within livestock and between isolates of humans and livestock. In both statistical studies, we expected that diseased animals might carry higher resistance levels in bacteria to regular antimicrobial treatments compared to those from healthy animals. However, this was only found in isolates of calves. In contrast, higher resistance levels were mainly found in non-clinical isolates of broilers and turkeys. This phenomenon ..."
