Analysis of Functionally Graded Porous Materials Using Deep Energy Method and Analytical Solution
Porous materials are an emerging branch of engineering materials that are composed of two elements: One element is a solid (matrix), and the other element is either liquid or gas. Pores can be distributed within the solid matrix of porous materials with different shapes and sizes. In addition, porous materials are lightweight, and flexible, and have higher resistance to crack propagation and specific thermal, mechanical, and magnetic properties. These properties are necessary for manufacturing engineering structures such as beams and other engineering structures.  These materials are widely used in solid mechanics and are considered a good replacement for classical materials by many researchers recently. Producing lightweight materials has been developed because of the possibility of exploiting the properties of these materials. Various types of porous material are generated naturally or artificially for a specific application such as bones and foams. Like functionally graded materials, pore distribution patterns can be uniform or non-uniform. Biot’s theory is a well-developed theory to study the behavior of poroelastic materials which investigates the interaction between fluid and solid phases of a fluid-saturated porous medium. Functionally graded porous materials (FGPM) are widely used in modern industries, such as aerospace, automotive, and biomechanics. These advanced materials have some specific properties compared to materials with a classic structure. They are extremely light, while they have specific strength in mechanical and high-temperature environments.  FGPMs are characterized by a gradual variation of material parameters over the volume. Although these materials can be made naturally, it is possible to design and manufacture them for a specific application. Therefore, many studies have been done to analyze the mechanical and thermal properties of FGPM structures, especially beams. Biot was the pioneer in formulating the linear elasticity and thermoelasticity equations of porous material. Since then, Biot's formulation has been developed in continuum mechanics which is named poroelasticity. There are obstacles to analyzing the behavior of these materials accurately like the shape of the pores, the distribution of pores in the material, and the behavior of the fluid (or gas) that saturated pores. Indeed, most of the engineering structures made of FGPM have nonlinear governing equations. Therefore, it is difficult to study engineering structures by solving these complicated equations. The main purpose of this dissertation is to analyze porous materials in engineering structures. For this purpose, the complex equations of porous materials have been simplified and applied to engineering problems so that the effect of all parameters of porous materials on the behavior of engineering structure has been investigated. The effect of important parameters of porous materials on beam behavior including pores compressibility, porosity distribution, thermal expansion of fluid within pores, the interaction of stresses between pores and material matrix due to temperature increase, effects of pore size, material thickness, and saturated pores with fluid and unsaturated conditions are investigated.  Two methods, the deep energy method, and the exact solution have been used to reduce the problem hypotheses, increase accuracy, increase processing speed, and apply these in engineering structures. In both methods, they are analyzed nonlinear and complex equations of porous materials. To increase the accuracy of analysis and study of the effect of shear forces, Timoshenko and Reddy's beam theories have been used. Also, neural networks such as residual and fully connected networks are designed to have high accuracy and less processing time than other computational methods.zeige weniger
