Design Intelligence : Human-Centered-Design for the development of industrial AI/ML agents
This study deals with design for AI/ML systems, more precisely in the industrial AI context based on case studies from the factory automation field. It therefore touches on core concepts from Human-Centered-Design (HCD), User Experience (UX) and Human Computer Interaction (HCI) on one hand, as well as concepts from Artificial Intelligence (AI), Machine Learning (ML) and the impact of technology on the other. The case studies the research is based on are within the industrial AI domain. However, the final outcomes, the findings, solutions, artifacts and so forth, should be transferable to a wider spectrum of domains. The study’s aim is to examine the role of designers in the age of AI and the factors which are relevant, based on the hypothesis that current AI/ML development lacks the human perspective, which means that there are pitfalls and challenges that design can help resolve. The initial literature review revealed that AI/ML are perceived as a new design material that calls for a new design paradigm. Additional research based on qualitative case study research was conducted to gain an overview of the relevant issues and challenges. From this, 17 themes emerged, which together with explorative expert interviews and a structured literature review, were further analyzed to produce the relevant HCD, UX and HCI themes. It became clear that designers need new processes, methods, and tools in the age of AI/ML in combination with not only design, but also data science and business expertise, which is why the proposed solution in this PhD features process modules for design, data science and business collaboration. There are seven process modules and their related activities and dependencies that serve as guidelines for practitioners who want to design intelligence. A unified framework for collecting use case exemplars was created, based on a workshop with different practitioners and researchers from the area of AI/ML to support and enrich the process modules with concrete projects examples.
