Structure analysis of the Perseus and the Cepheus B molecular clouds
In the first part of this work, I study the structural properties of Galactic molecular clouds. The \Delta-variance method is applied to both the CO integrated intensity maps and the velocity channel maps that present spatial distribution of line intensities at each successive velocity interval. The spectral index \beta of the corresponding power spectrum is determined. Its variation across the cloud and across the lines is studied. It is found that the power spectra of all CO line integrated maps of the whole complex show the same index, \beta = 3.1, for scales between about 0.2 and 3 pc, independent of isotopomer and rotational transition. However, the CO maps of individual subregions show a variation of \beta. The 12CO 3--2 data provide a spread of indices between 2.9 in L 1455 and 3.5 in NGC 1333. In general, active star forming regions show a larger power-law exponent. I use the velocity channel analysis to study the statistical relation between the neighboring channel maps. Some theory predicts systematic increase of the spectral index with channel width. Such systematic increase is only detected in the blue line wings for the CO data. I apply Gaussclumps to the whole observed Perseus cloud and seven sub-regions, and to derive the clump properties as traced in 13CO 1--0 and 2--1. With the individual clumps identified, their properties such as mass, size, velocity width are derived. The clumps identified have a power law mass spectrum, and a power law index 1.9 of clump mass spectra. The virial parameter, which is the ratio between virial mass and the mass estimated from the Local Thermodynamic Equilibrium (LTE) analysis, is used to characterize the equilibrium state of a clump. The LTE assumes that all distribution functions characterizing the material and its interaction with the radiation field at one position are given by thermodynamic equilibrium relations at local values of the temperature and density. Virial mass here is the mass of a clump in statistical equilibrium derived by using the virial theorem. All clumps identified in both NGC 1333 and L 1455 are found with a virial parameter above 1.
