From Soviet republics to EU member states : a legal and political assessment of the Baltic states' accession to the EU
Preliminary Material -- Chapter One. A Struggle for Dominance: from the Northern Crusades to the Russian Empire -- Chapter Two. The Creation of Independent Baltic Republics -- Chapter Three. 1920-1940: The Years of Independence -- Chapter Four. Incorporation into the Soviet Union -- Chapter Five. 1985-1991: National Reawakening and the Restoration of Independence -- Chapter Six. Defining the International Legal Status of the Baltic States: State Continuity or State Succession? -- Conclusions the Determinant Role of the Baltic States’ History and International Legal Status -- Chapter One. The Incremental Making of the Ec’s Ostpolitik: towards a Policy of Differentiation -- Chapter Two. Integrating the Baltic States in the Ec/eu’s External Policies -- Chapter Three. Catching up with the Countries of Central and Eastern Europe -- Chapter Four. Consequences for the Internal Legal Order of the Baltic States -- Chapter Five. The Emergence of an Eu Policy towards the Baltic Sea Region: Characteristics and Limitations -- Chapter Six. Explaining the Development of Ec/eu-baltic Relations: Internal and External Factors -- Conclusions the Baltic States and the European Union: Assessment of the Evolving Relationship -- Chapter One. The Legal Framework of Eu Enlargement -- Chapter Two. The Introduction of a ‘Pre-accession Strategy -- Chapter Three. The Dilemmas of Differentiation between the Candidate Countries -- Chapter Four. The ‘Enhanced Pre-accession Strategy’: Reconciling Inclusion and Differentiation -- Chapter Five. Preparing for Enlargement: Reconciling Widening and Deepening -- Conclusions Characteristics of the Eu’s Enlargement Methodology and Pre-accession Strategies -- Preliminary Material -- Contents -- Chapter One. The Legal Framework of Eu Accession Negotiations -- Chapter Two. Accession Negotiations in Practice: the Case of the Baltic States -- Chapter Three. Drafting the Treaty of Accession -- Conclusions the Treaty of Accession and Differentiation in the Eu -- Chapter One. Towards a New Approach in Eu-russia Relations? -- Chapter Two. Remaining Challenges in Baltic-russian Relations -- Chapter Three. The Role of the Baltic States in the Eu’s Relations with Russia -- Conclusions Eu Enlargement as a ‘Deus Ex Machina’? -- Chapter One. The Adaptation of the Baltic States’ Legal Systems -- Chapter Two. The Role of the Baltic States in the Process of European Constitutionalisation -- Conclusions the Constitutional Challenges after Enlargement -- General Conclusions -- Annex I Overview of Negotiations and Transitional Arrangements with Estonia -- Annex II Overview of Negotiations and Transitional Arrangements with Latvia -- Annex III Overview of Negotiations and Transitional Arrangements with Lithuania -- Bibliography -- Index.
From Soviet Republics to EU Member States addresses the legal and political challenges surrounding the EU accession of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. Based upon a profound analysis of the Baltic States’ historic development and international legal status, this book examines the gradual development of bilateral relations between the EU and each of the Baltic countries. It discusses the strategic policy choices made in the EU’s fifth enlargement wave and the consequences of its pre-accession strategies. Specific attention is devoted to the impact of enlargement on the triangular relationship between the EU, the Baltic States and Russia. Finally, the constitutional changes within the Baltic States and within the European Union itself are taken into account
