Oberflächenmodifikation von Titandioxid mittels Kupfer-Plasma-Immersions-Ionen-Implantation und Charakterisierung der physikochemischen und mikrobiologischen Eigenschaften
A special setup to treat titanium samples with plasma immersion ion implantation was designed, constructed and established. Here, in difference to conventional PIII setups, a capacitive coupled RF discharge with two coplanar electrodes directly above the samples was used. By the use of copper as electrode and sample holder material and by choosing special process parameters it was possible to oxidize the titanium and simultaneously dope the titanium samples with copper. In addition to gas flow controllers also liquid flow controllers were installed. This allows the use of gases, vaporized liquids and eroded solids in different combinations for the PIII process simultaneously. The voltage and the length of the PIII pulses were variable. The current through the titanium sample was measured to get a direct value for the implanted amount of ions. The temperature of the treated samples was measured in-situ with a pyrometer. The relevant electrical parameters were measured by using an oscilloscope. It reveals that an overall ion current of up to 48 mA could be implanted. This is equivalent to 3.5 x 1015 ions cm-2 s-1 and an energy flux of 5 J cm-2 s-1. The resulting temperatures of the substrate surface are up to 600ʿC. These obtained parameters are equal to conventional PIII setups. The first object of this work was the preparation of a thick titanium dioxide layer inside the subsurface of the titanium sample by using oxygen as process gas for ion implantation. With this process the undefined, naturally grown oxide layer was replaced by a defined TiO2. To get to know the implantation or modification depth inside the titanium, depth profiles with XPS and argon-sputtering were measured. They reveal for 10 keV ion energy, as a combination of implantation and thermal diffusion, a ...
Titanatom, Titanlegierung, Plasma-Immersions-Implantation, Ionenimplantation, Kupferoxid <Kupfer(II)-oxid>, Kupferoxid <Kupfer(I)oxid>, Kupfer-T, MG-63 Zellen, Kupfer-Release, RF-Entladung, MG-63 cells, copper release, radio frequency discharge
