Liberation of low molecular weight organic acids from sedimentary organic matter and their role on microbial activity
Low molecular weight organic acids (LMWOAs) are important nutrients for microbes. However, most LMWOAs do not exist freely in the environment but are bound to macromolecular organic matter, e.g. kerogen, lignite and coal. During burial and geological maturation of sedimentary macromolecular organic matter biological and abiological processes promote the liberation of LMWOAs into the surrounding sediment. Through this process, microbes in sedimentary subsurface environments are supplied with essential nutrients. To estimate the feedstock potential of buried macromolecular organic matter to many environments it is important to determine the amount of LMWOAs that are bound to such a matrix. However, high-pressure and high temperature are a key feature of deep subsurface environments, and these physical parameters have a profound influence on chemical reaction kinetics. Therefore it is essential for the estimation of the feedstock potential to generate high-pressure and high temperature for the liberation of LMWOAs to recreate true in-situ conditions. This work presents a newly developed, inexpensive incubation system for biological and geological samples. It allows the application of high-pressure and high temperature as well as a subsampling of the liquid phase without loss of pressure, thereby not disturbing the on-going processes. When simulating the liberation of LMWOAs from sedimentary organic matter, the newly developed incubation system produces more realistic results than other extraction systems like Soxhlet. The extraction products remain in the extraction medium throughout the extraction, influencing the chemical conditions of the extraction medium. Sub-bituminous coal samples from New Zealand as well as lignite samples from Germany were extracted at elevated temperature (90˚C) and pressure (5 MPa). The main LMWOAs released from these low rank coals were formate, acetate and oxalate. Extraction efficiency was increased by two to four times for formate, acetate and oxalate in comparison to existing extraction methods without pressurisation and with demineralised water. This shows the importance of pressure for the simulation of true in-situ conditions and suggests that the amount of bioavailable LMWOAs is higher than previously thought. With the increase in carbon capture and storage (CCS) and the enhanced recovery of oil and gas (EOR/EGR), more and more CO2 becomes injected into the underground. However, the effects of elevated concentrations of carbon dioxide on sedimentary organic matter are rarely investigated. As the incuabtion system allows the manipulation of the composition and partial pressure of dissolved gasses, the effect of highly gas-enriched (CO2, CO2/SO2, CO2/NO2; to simulate flue gas conditions) waters on the extraction yield of LMWOAs from macromolecular organic matter was evaluated. For sub-bituminous coal the concentrations of all LMWAOs decreased upon the addition of gas, irrespective of its composition, whereas for lignite formate always and acetate mostly increased, while oxalate decreased. This suggests an positive effect on the nutrient supply for the subsurface microbiota of lignite layers, as formate and acetate are the most common LMWOAs used for microbial metabolism. In terrestrial mud volcanoes (TMVs), sedimentary material is rapidly ascending from great depth to the surface. Therefore LMWOAs that were produced from buried macromolecular organic matter at depth are also brought up to the surface, and fuel heterotrophic microbial ecosystems at the surface. TMVs represent geochemically and microbiologically diverse habitats, which are supplied with organic substrates and electron acceptors from deep-seated hydrocarbon-generating systems and intersected shallow aquifers, respectively. The main electron donor in TMVs in Azerbaijan is sulphate, and microbial sulphate reduction leads to the production of a wide range of reduced sulphur species that are key players in several biological processes. In our study we estimated the effect of LMWOAs on the sulphur metabolising activity of microorganims in TMVs from Azerbaijan. The addition of a mixture of volatile fatty acids containing acetate and other LMWOAs showed significant positive response to the sulphate reduction rate (SRR) of samples of several mud volcanoes. Further investigations on the temperature dependency of the SRR and the characterisation of thermophilic sulphate-reducing bacteria (SRB) showed a connection between the deep hot subsurface and the surface
