Particle-in-cell simulations of perpendicular supernova shock fronts
The origin of cosmic rays was the subject of several studies for over a century. The investigations done within this dissertation are one small step to shed some more light on this mystery. Locating the sources of cosmic rays is not trivial due to the interstellar magnetic field. However, the Hillas criterion allows us to arrive at the conclusion that supernova remnants are our main suspect for the origin of galactic cosmic rays. The mechanism by which they are accelerating particles is found within the field of shock physics as diffusive shock acceleration. To allow particles to enter this process also known as Fermi acceleration pre-acceleration processes like shock surfing acceleration and shock drift acceleration are necessary. Investigating the processes happening in the plasma shocks of supernova remnants is possible by utilising a simplified model which can be simulated on a computer using Particle-in-Cell simulations. We developed a new and clean setup to simulate the formation of a double shock, i.e., consisting of a forward and a reverse shock and a contact discontinuity, by the collision of two counter-streaming plasmas, in which a magnetic field can be woven into. In a previous work, we investigated the processes at unmagnetised and at magnetised parallel shocks, whereas in the current work, we move our investigation on to magnetised perpendicular shocks. Due to a much stronger confinement of the particles to the collision region the perpendicular shock develops much faster than the parallel shock. On the other hand, this leads to much weaker turbulence. We are able to find indications for shock surfing acceleration and shock drift acceleration happening at the two shocks leading to populations of pre-accelerated particles that are suitable as a seed population to be injected into further diffusive shock acceleration to be accelerated to even higher energies. We observe the development of filamentary structures in the shock ramp of the forward shock, but not at the reverse shock. This leads to the conclusion that the development of such structures in the shock ramp of quasi-perpendicular collisionless shocks might not necessarily be determined by the existence of a critical sonic Mach number but by a critical shock speed. The results of the investigations done within this dissertation might be useful for further studies of oblique shocks and for studies using hybrid or magnetohydrodynamic simulations. Together with more sophisticated observational methods, these studies will help to bring us closer to an answer as to how particles can be accelerated in supernova remnants and eventually become cosmic rays that can be detected on Earth.
