Cosmic-ray neutron sensing for soil moisture measurements in cropped fields
This cumulative dissertation explored the use of the detection of natural background of fast neutrons, the so-called cosmic-ray neutron sensing (CRS) approach to measure field-scale soil moisture in cropped fields. Primary cosmic rays penetrate the top atmosphere and interact with atmospheric particles. Such interaction results on a cascade of high-energy neutrons, which continue traveling through the atmospheric column. Finally, neutrons penetrate the soil surface and a second cascade is produced with the so-called secondary cosmic-ray neutrons (fast neutrons). Partly, fast neutrons are absorbed by hydrogen (soil moisture). Remaining neutrons scatter back to the atmosphere, where its flux is inversely correlated to the soil moisture content, therefore allowing a non-invasive indirect measurement of soil moisture. The CRS methodology is mainly evaluated based on a field study carried out on a farmland in Potsdam (Brandenburg, Germany) along three crop seasons with corn, sunflower and winter rye; a bare soil period; and two winter periods. Also, field monitoring was carried out in the Schaefertal catchment (Harz, Germany) for long-term testing of CRS against ancillary data. In the first experimental site, the CRS method was calibrated and validated using different approaches of soil moisture measurements. In a period with corn, soil moisture measurement at the local scale was performed at near-surface only, and in subsequent periods (sunflower and winter rye) sensors were placed in three depths (5 cm, 20 cm and 40 cm). The direct transfer of CRS calibration parameters between two vegetation periods led to a large overestimation of soil moisture by the CRS. Part of this soil moisture overestimation was attributed to an underestimation of the CRS observation depth during the corn period ( 5-10 cm), which was later recalculated to values between 20-40 cm in other crop periods (sunflower and winter rye). According to results from these monitoring periods with different crops, vegetation played an important role on the CRS measurements. Water contained also in crop biomass, above and below ground, produces important neutron moderation. This effect was accounted for by a simple model for neutron corrections due to vegetation. It followed crop development and reduced overall CRS soil moisture error for periods of sunflower and winter rye. In Potsdam farmland also inversely-estimated soil hydraulic parameters were determined at the field scale, using CRS soil moisture from the sunflower period. A modelling framework coupling HYDRUS-1D and PEST was applied. Subsequently, field-scale soil hydraulic properties were compared against local scale soil properties (modelling and measurements). Successful results were obtained here, despite large difference in support volume. Simple modelling framework emphasizes future research directions with CRS soil moisture to parameterize field scale models. In Schaefertal catchment, CRS measurements were verified using precipitation and evapotranspiration data. At the monthly resolution, CRS soil water storage was well correlated to these two weather variables. Also clearly, water balance could not be closed due to missing information from other compartments such as groundwater, catchment discharge, etc. In the catchment, the snow influence to natural neutrons was also evaluated. As also observed in Potsdam farmland, CRS signal was strongly influenced by snow fall and snow accumulation. A simple strategy to measure snow was presented for Schaefertal case. Concluding remarks of this dissertation showed that (a) the cosmic-ray neutron sensing (CRS) has a strong potential to provide feasible measurement of mean soil moisture at the field scale in cropped fields; (b) CRS soil moisture is strongly influenced by other environmental water pools such as vegetation and snow, therefore these should be considered in analysis; (c) CRS water storage can be used for soil hydrology modelling for determination of soil hydraulic parameters; and (d) CRS approach has strong potential for long term monitoring of soil moisture and for addressing studies of water balance.
