Between culture and biology : perspectives on ontogenetic development
Between Culture and Biology brings together biological, psychological and cultural perspectives on development. It argues that the biological bases of behaviour and cultural context should be approached in an integrated fashion to properly understand ontogenetic development and that both the cultural and biological demain provide constraints and opportunities for development
Setting the scene -- Culture, biology and development across history / Gustav Jahoda -- Comparative developmental perspectives on culture: the great apes / Anne E. Russon -- The mutual definition of culture and biology in development / Patricia M. Greenfield -- Perspectives on Development Informed by Culture -- Indian parents' ethnotheories as reflections of the Hindu scheme of child and human development / T.S. Saraswathi and Hema Ganapathy -- Indigenous conceptions of childhood development and social realities in southern Africa / Roderick Fulata Zimba -- The myth of lurking chaos / Ernst E. Boesch -- Integrating cultural psychological and biological perspectives in understanding child development / Joan G. Miller -- Perspectives on development drawing from the universal and the specific -- Between individuals and culture: Individuals' evaluations of exclusion from social groups / Melanie Killen, Heidi McGlothlin and Jennie Lee-Kim -- Biology, culture and child rearing: the development of social motives / Hans-Joachim Kornadt -- Perspectives on Development Informed by Evolutionary Thinking -- Development as the interface between biology and culture: a conceptualization of early ontogenetic experiences / Heidi Keller -- Integrating evolution, culture and developmental psychology: explaining caregiver-infant proximity and responsiveness in central Africa and the USA / Barry S. Hewlett and Michael E. Lamb -- Shame across cultures: the evolution, ontogeny, and function of a 'moral emotion' / Michael J. Casimir and Michael Schnegg -- Metaperspectives -- Culture and development / Michael Cole -- Behaviour-culture relationships and ontogenetic development / Ype H. Poortinga and Karel Soudijn -- Paradigms revisited: from incommensurability to respected complementarity / Lutz H. Eckensberger -- Epilogue: conceptions of ontogenetic development: integrating and demarcating perspectives / Heidi Keller, Ype H. Poortinga and Axel Schölmerich
