International financial governance under stress : global structures versus national imperatives
The Asian and Argentinian financial crises have focused attention on the most appropriate shape and role for international and national financial institutions. This volume offers a wide-ranging overview of the problems and possible policy responses. Although the approach is multi-disciplinary, most of the contributors write from a political economy perspective
Introduction : global market integration, financial crises and policy imperatives / Geoffrey R.D. Underhill and Xiaoke Zhang -- Reform of the international financial architecture : what has been written? / Jonathan Story -- Costs and benefits of financial globalisation : concepts, evidence and implications / John Williamson -- Capital controls : the neglected option / Benjamin J. Cohen -- Global structures and political imperatives : in search of normative underpinnings for international financial order / Geoffrey R.D. Underhill and Xiaoke Zhang -- Crisis consequences : lessons from Thailand / Pasuk Phongpaichit and Chris Baker -- The politics of financial reform : recapitalising Indonesia's banks / Richard Robison -- South Korea and the Asian crisis : the impact of the democratic deficit and OECD accession / Stephen L. Harris -- Currency crises in Russia and other transition economies / Vladimir Popov -- Capital account convertibility and the national interest : has India got it right? / Vijay Joshi
Learning to live without the Plan : financial reform in China / Shaun Breslin -- The Asian financial crisis and Japanese policy reactions / Masayuki Tadokoro -- Private capture, policy failures and financial crisis : evidence and lessons from South Korea and Thailand / Xiaoke Zhang and Geoffrey R.D. Underhill -- Governance, markets and power : the political economy of accounting reform in Indonesia / Andrew Rosser -- The private sector, international standards and the architecture of global finance / George Vojta and Marc Uzan -- The legitimacy of international organisations and the future of global governance / Jean-Marc Coicaud and Luiz A. Pereira Da Silva -- The G-7 and architecture debates : norms, authority and global financial governance / Andrew Baker -- Bail-outs, bail-ins, and bankruptcy : evolution of the new architecture / Manmohan S. Kumar and Marcus Miller -- Conclusion : towards the good governance of the international financial system / Geoffrey R.D. Underhill and Xiaoke Zhang
