Financial development, integration and stability : evidence from Central, Eastern and South-Eastern Europe
This book highlights the achievements and challenges of the ongoing process of financial integration in Europe. This unique collection will be of great interest to economists and experts in the fields of financial markets and European integration from central, commercial and investment banks, governments, international organizations, universities and research institutes
Financial integration and financial deepening in the EU : mind the gap / Klaus Liebscher -- Benefits and risks of financial integration / Cesare Calari -- Financial globalization, corporate governance and Eastern Europe / René M. Stulz -- Does the financial sector need Europe? / Gertrude Tumpel-Gugerell -- The Central and Eastern European financial sector : current state and prospects / Irmfried Schwimann and Kristin Vandenbergen -- CEEC financial sector issues and macroeconomic policy / Cristian Popa -- The financial system of the EU-25 / Franklin Allen, Laura Bartiloro and Oskar Kowalewski -- Meeting the need for a regulatory framework for EU financial markets / Alexandre Lamfalussy -- Finance and growth : the legacy of Schumpeter to be rediscovered? / Peter Mooslechner -- The impact of the euro on investment : sectoral evidence / Tomas Dvorak -- Importance of financial sectors for growth in accession countries / Gerhard Fink, Peter Haiss and Goran Vuksic -- Financial sector development in South-Eastern Europe : quality matters / Arnaud Mehl, Cristina Vespro and Adalbert Winkler -- Happy, sad and open endings : a comparison of credit growth in CEECs with past experiences and ongoing developments in Austria, Finland and Spain / Doris Ritzberger-Grunwald --
Is lending in Central and Eastern Europe developing too fast? / Frédéric Boissay, Oscar Calvo-Gonzalez and Tomasz Kosluk -- Too much of a good thing? Credit booms in transition economies : the cases of Bulgaria, Romania, and Ukraine / Christoph Duenwald, Nikolay Gueorguiev and Andrea Schaechter -- The 'New Europe' household lending market / Fabrizio Coricelli, Fabio Mucci and Debora Revoltella -- Foreign banks in Eastern Europe : mode of entry and effects on bank interest rates / Sophie Claeys and Christa Hainz -- Ownership structures and investment in transition economies / Dennis C. Mueller and Evgeni Peev -- Ownership competition in the European transition arena : towards a viable restructuring? / Diana Pop and Julien Le Maux -- Deposit interest rates, asset risk and bank failure in Croatia / Evan Kraft and Tomislav Galac -- Investigating the early signals of banking sector vulnerabilities in Central and East European emerging markets / Kadri Munnasoo and David G. Mayes -- Financial integration through the interbank market : stability and welfare implications / Falko Fecht and Hans Peter Gruner -- Contagion risk in financial networks / Ana Babus -- Does corporate mobility enhance corporate governance? / Zsuzsanna Fluck and Colin Mayer -- Equity market integration of new EU member states / Lorenzo Cappiello ... [et al.] -- The integration of Czech, Hungarian and Polish bond markets with the Euro area bond market : a deja-vu of the Club-Med convergence plays? / Thomas Reininger and Zoltan Walko -- International capital mobility and current account targeting in Central and Eastern European countries / Matthias Kohler -- Financial institutions as a driving force of integration / Josef Christl -- Unicredit's strategy in Central and Eastern Europe / Alessandro Profumo -- Banking consolidation / Reinhard Ortner -- Building a Central European Exchange Alliance / Stefan Zopotocky
