Operator Theory, Analysis and the State Space Approach : In Honor of Rien Kaashoek
This volume is dedicated to Rien Kaashoek on the occasion of his 80th birthday and celebrates his many contributions to the field of operator theory during more than fifty years. In the first part of the volume, biographical information and personal accounts on the life of Rien Kaashoek are presented. Eighteen research papers by friends and colleagues of Rien Kaashoek are included in the second part. Contributions by J. Agler, Z.A. Lykova, N.J. Young, J.A. Ball, G.J. Groenewald, S. ter Horst, H. Bart, T. Ehrhardt, B. Silbermann, J.M. Bogoya, S.M. Grudsky, I.S. Malysheva, A. Böttcher, E. Wegert, Z. Zhou, Y. Eidelman, I. Haimovici, A.E. Frazho, A.C.M. Ran, B. Fritzsche, B. Kirstein, C.Madler, J. J. Jaftha, D.B. Janse van Rensburg, P. Junghanns, R. Kaiser, J. Nemcova, M. Petreczky, J.H. van Schuppen, L. Plevnik, P. Semrl, A. Sakhnovich, F.-O. Speck, S. Sremac, H.J. Woerdeman, H. Wolkowicz and N. Vasilevski
Caratheodory extremal functions on the symmetrized bidisc -- Standard versus strict Bounded Real Lemma with innite-dimensional state space III: The dichotomous and bicausal case -- L-free directed bipartite graphs and echelon type canonical forms -- Extreme individual eigen-values for a class of large Hessenberg Toeplitz matrices -- How to solve an equation with a Toeplitz operator? -- On the maximal ideal space of even quasi-continuous functions on the unit circle -- Bisection eigenvalue method for Hermitian matrices with quasiseparable representation and a related inverse problem -- A note on inner outer factorization of wide matrix valued functions -- An Application of the Schur Complement to Truncated Matricial Power Moment Problem -- A Toeplitz-like operator with rational symbol having poles on the unit circle I: Fredholm properties -- Canonical form for H-symplectic matrices -- A note on the Fredholm theory of singular integral operators with Cauchy and Mellin kernels -- Towards a System Theory of Rational Systems -- Automorphisms of effect algebras -- GBDT of discrete skew-selfadjoint Dirac systems and explicit solutions of the Maximum determinant positive denite Toeplitz completionsorresponding non-stationary problems -- On the reduction of general Wiener-Hopf operators -- On commutative C*-algebras generated by Toeplitz operators with Tm-invariant symbols
