CFD Techniques and Energy Applications
This book focuses on CFD (Computational Fluid Dynamics) techniques and the recent developments and research works in energy applications. It is devoted to the publication of basic and applied studies broadly related to this area. The chapters present the development of numerical methods, computational techniques, and case studies in the energy applications. Also, they offer the fundamental knowledge for using CFD in energy applications through new technical approaches. Besides, they describe the CFD process steps and provide benefits and issues for using CFD analysis in understanding the flow complicated phenomena and its use in the design process. The best practices for reducing errors and uncertainties in the CFD analysis are further described. The book reveals not only the recent advances and future research trends of CFD Techniques but also provides the reader with valuable information about energy applications. It aims to provide the readers, such as engineers and PhD students, with the fundamentals of CFD prior to embarking on any real simulation project. Additionally, engineers supporting or being supported by CFD analysts can take advantage from the information of the book’s different chapters
This book focuses on CFD (Computational Fluid Dynamics) techniques and the recent developments and research works in energy applications. It is devoted to the publication of basic and applied studies broadly related to this area. The chapters present the development of numerical methods, computational techniques, and case studies in the energy applications. Also, they offer the fundamental knowledge for using CFD in energy applications through new technical approaches. Besides, they describe the CFD process steps and provide benefits and issues for using CFD analysis in understanding the flow complicated phenomena and its use in the design process. The best practices for reducing errors and uncertainties in the CFD analysis are further described. The book reveals not only the recent advances and future research trends of CFD Techniques but also provides the reader with valuable information about energy applications. It aims to provide the readers, such as engineers and PhD students, with the fundamentals of CFD prior to embarking on any real simulation project. Additionally, engineers supporting or being supported by CFD analysts can take advantage from the information of the book's different chapters. ?  Prof. Dr. Eng. Zied DrissDr. Driss is Associate Professor  in the Department of Mechanical Engineering at National School of  Engineers of Sfax (ENIS). He received his Engineering Diploma in 2001,  his Master Degree in 2003, his PhD in 2008 and his HDR in 2013 in  Mechanical Engineering from ENIS at University of Sfax, Tunisia. He is  interested on the development of numerical and experimental techniques  for solving problems in mechanical engineering and energy applications.  Also, his research has been focused on the interaction between  Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) and Computational Structure Dynamics  (CSD) codes. As a result of his research, he is principal or  co-principal investigator on more than 80 papers in peer-reviewed  journals, more than 150 communications to international conferences, 10  books and 40 books chapters. Also, he is the main inventors of 2  patents. Currently, Dr. Driss is a Chief of Project in the Laboratory of  Electromechanical Systems (LASEM), an Editorial in Chief for two  international journals, an Editorial Board Member and reviewer for  different international journals, an Editor for different books, a  General Chair of two bi-annual international conferences and an active  member in different national and international associations. Prof. Dr. Brahim Necib Dr.  B.Necib is a Professor and Head of Research in Mechanical Engineering  Department, Laboratory of mechanics at the University of Mentouri  Constantine, Algeria. He received his Philosophy Doctor (Ph. D) and his  Master in Aeronautical and Astronautical Engineering at Purdue  University W. Lafayette Indiana, USA in 1987 and 1982 respectively. He  got his Engineer degree in Mechanical Engineering from the National  Polytechnic School of Algiers, Algeria in 1980. His work interest is on  the development of numerical and experimental techniques for solving  practical problems in mechanical and aeronautical engineering. His  research work is focused on the aerodynamics, aero elasticity,  propulsion and the analysis of static and dynamic discrete and continuum  structures as well as the composite and the new smart materials using  the finite elements numerical methods. As a result of his research work  he is the main supervisor of 10 doctors of state, 30 magiters in  mechanical engineering, 10 masters of sciences, 25 engineers of state in  mechanics and the principal responsible of 11 national projects of  research (CNEPRU). He is the principal authors and co-authors in 20  international and national papers in indexed journals and more than 150  international communications. Also, he is the editor of 02 published  bloc notes on «Continuum Mechanics» and «Finite Element Methods». Prof.  Necib was the head of the Research Laboratory of Mechanics up to 2008.  Actually he is the responsible of research team of 'aerodynamics,  complex structures and news materials' and he is an active member in  many national research commissions and scientific associations.Prof. Dr. Hao-Chun ZhangDr.  Hao-Chun Zhang is currently a Professor in School of Energy Science and  Engineering, Harbin Institute of Technology (HIT). He is the deputy  head of the Department of Nuclear Science and Engineering, head of  Institute of Nuclear Reactor Engineering, HIT, and executive professor  of HIT-CORYS Nuclear System Simulation International Joint Research  Center(Sino-France). With BSC (Engineering) in 1999, MSC (Engineering)  in 2001 and Ph.D. in 2007 from Harbin Institute of Technology (HIT), Dr.  Zhang joined HIT in September 2004. Dr. Zhang has about 150 research  publications in peer-reviewed journals and conferences, 2 books, and 2  translations of foreign books. Apart from the main research in the area  of engineering thermo-physics, currently his research covers  computational energy science, nuclear system simulation, and ultrasonic  aircraft thermal protection. Dr. Zhang is a recipient of the research  fellowship of the Krupp Foundation and DAAD, Germany. He is the reviewer  of more than 20 journals, many conferences and scientific funds in the  area of nuclear engineering, heat transfer, mechanics and sustainable  energy. Dr. Zhang is now in charge of research projects from DFG,  national research natural foundation of China, ministry of education of  China, ministry of science and technology of China and funds from  international and enterprises collaboration. Dr. Zhang is the member of  AAAS, ASME and AIAA, Director of China Energy Research Society. He was  awarded the 2016 Best Paper of ASME MNHMT, 2015 Most Valued Reviewer by  Journal of Quantitative Spectroscopy and Radiative Transfer, 2012  DAAD/DFG funds for Chinese scholar, the 2011 outstanding reviewer by  ASME Journal of Heat Transfer and 2008 Krupp Fellowship for Chinese  Young Scholar from Germany.
