Entrepreneurship and regional development : local processes and global patterns
1. Introduction / Charlie Karlsson, Börje Johansson and Roger R. Stough -- 2. Globalization and the emergence of the entrepreneurial society / David B. Audretsch. -- 3. New firm formation and economic development in a globalizing economy / Sierdjan Koster and Charlie Karlsson -- 4. Entrepreneurship and local growth : a comparison of the US and Sweden / Benny Borgman and Pontus Braunerhjelm -- 5. Gibrat's law reconsidered : a creativity perspective / Zoltan J. Acs and Catherine Armington -- 6. International linkages and entrepreneurship in media clusters : evidence from the UK / Gary A.S. Cook and Naresh R. Pandit -- 7. Household migration and attractiveness in consumer service supply / Charlotta Mellander and Johanna Palmberg -- 8. Knowledge intensive business services as gazelles : implications of size on innovation / Johanna Nählinder -- 9. The community entrepreneur as a facilitator of local economic development / Lars Rønning, Elisabet Ljunggren and Johan Wiklund -- 10. Innovation and entrepreneurship in Danish regional policy / Andreas P. Cornett -- 11. Modeling just-in-time manufacturing in a vertically integrated industry / Ho Yeon Kim -- 12. The innovation and productivity effect of foreign takeover of national assets / Börje Johansson, Hans Lööf and Bernd Ebersberger -- 13. Creative industries and regional economic development - the example of public supported regional film centres in Sweden per assmo -- 14. Local patterns of growth in a global perspective : a territorial scenario of an enlarged Europe / Roberta Capello.
Perhaps the most exceptional aspect of the current era of globalisation is that entrepreneurship has become the engine for local processes of economic, social and cultural development throughout the world. This important new book brings together a number of leading scholars in the field to explore the development aspects of globalisation, in particular those that foster the evolution of entrepreneurs in local-global processes
