Banking, monetary policy and the political economy of financial regulation : essays in the tradition of Jane D'Arista
'Jane D'Arista is one of those towering figures who thinks way ahead of the conventional understandings. A generation ago she recognized the distorted architecture of finance and banking and described in lucid detail the reform agenda for restoring a stable and equitable system. Written in the tradition of D'Arista, the essays in this important collection point the way toward overcoming the recurrent financial disorders of our gilded age. Like Jane D'Arista's work, this timely volume demands the attention of both policy experts and the politicians who must do the reconstruction.'--William Greider, author of Secrets of the Temple: How the Federal Reserve Runs the Country. The many forces that led to the economic crisis of 2008 were in fact identified, analyzed and warned against for many years before the crisis by economist Jane D'Arista, among others. Now, writing in the tradition of D'Arista's extensive work, the internationally renowned contributors to this thought-provoking book discuss research carried out on various indicators of the crisis and illustrate how these perspectives can contribute to productive thinking on monetary and financial policies. Topics addressed include monetary policy, financial markets, financial history, liquidity, institutions and global finance, with an emphasis on the ways in which theory and policy can be applied toward the goal of a more equitable and civilized society. The book's contributors hail from across the globe and offer a range of both academic and policy-making perspectives. This fascinating book will appeal to students and scholars of economics, particularly those with an interest in international finance and banking, financial regulation, and political economy
pt. I. Appreciation and introduction -- pt. II. Federal Reserve policy -- pt. III. Financial history and institutions -- pt. IV. Global finance -- pt. V. Theoretical considerations
