Sojourns in Probability Theory and Statistical Physics - III : Interacting Particle Systems and Random Walks, A Festschrift for Charles M. Newman
Siva Athreya, Alexander Drewitz, Rongfeng Sun: Random Walk Among Mobile/Immobile Traps: A Short Review -- L. Avena, F. den Hollander: Random walks in cooling random environments -- C. Bahadorana, H. Guiolb, K. Ravishankarc, E. Saada: Constructive Euler hydrodynamics for one-dimensional attractive particle systems -- Riddhipratim Basu, Vladas Sidoravicius, Allan Sly: Scheduling of Non-Colliding Random Walks -- Alessandra Caraceni, Nicolas Curien: Self-Avoiding Walks on the UIPQ -- Xinxing Chen, Bernard Derrida, Yueyun Hu, Mikhail Lifshits, Zhan Shi: A max-type recursive model: some properties and open questions -- Chiara Franceschini, Cristian Giardina: Stochastic Duality and Orthogonal Polynomials -- Geoffrey Grimmett, Zhongyang Li: Self-avoiding walks and connective constants -- Pablo Groisman, Matthieu Jonckheere: Front propagation and quasi-stationary distributions: two faces of the same coin -- Mark Holmes, Daniel Kious: A monotonicity property for once reinforced biased random walk on Zd -- Clement Laurent, Alejandro F. Ramirez, Christophe Sabot, Santiago Saglietti: Velocity estimates for symmetric random walks at low ballistic disorder
Charles M. (Chuck) Newman has been a leader in Probability Theory and Statistical Physics for nearly half a century. This three-volume set is a celebration of the far-reaching scientific impact of his work. It consists of articles by Chuck’s collaborators and colleagues across a number of the fields to which he has made contributions of fundamental significance. This publication was conceived during a conference in 2016 at NYU Shanghai that coincided with Chuck's 70th birthday. The sub-titles of the three volumes are: I. Spin Glasses and Statistical Mechanics II. Brownian Web and Percolation III. Interacting Particle Systems and Random Walks The articles in these volumes, which cover a wide spectrum of topics, will be especially useful for graduate students and researchers who seek initiation and inspiration in Probability Theory and Statistical Physics
