Advances in Regression, Survival Analysis, Extreme Values, Markov Processes and Other Statistical Applications
Part I Invited Sessions: Youden Square with Split Units (Stanisław Franciszek Mejza and Shinji Kuriki) -- Likelihood and PLS Estimators for Structural Equation Modeling: an Assessment of Sample Size, Skewness and Model Misspecification Effects (Manuel J. Vilares and Pedro S. Coelho) -- Part II Communications: A Parametric Cure Model with Covariates (Ana M. Abreu and Cristina S. Rocha) -- Survival Analysis Applied to the Study of Time from Diagnosis of HIV-1 Infection to AIDS in Portugal (Marta Alves, Cristina S. Rocha and Maria Teresa Paixão).- A new Independence Test for VaR Violations (P. Araújo Santos and M. I. Fraga Alves) -- Discrimination Between Parametric Survival Models for Removal Times of Bird Carcasses in Scavenger Removal Trials at Wind Turbines Sites (Regina Bispo, Joana Bernardino, Tiago A. Marques and Dinis Pestana) -- Uniformity (M. F. Brilhante, M. Malva, S. Mendonça, D. Pestana, F. Sequeira and S. Velosa) -- Asymptotic Comparison at Optimal Levels of Minimum-Variance Reduced-Bias Tail Index Estimators (Frederico Caeiro and M. Ivette Gomes) -- Extremal Behavior of the Generalized Integer-valued Random Coefficient Autoregressive Process (Luísa Canto e Castro, Dulce Gomes and Maria da Graça Temido) -- Models of Individual Growth in a Random Environment: Study and Application of First Passage Times (Clara Carlos, Carlos A. Braumann and Patrícia A. Filipe) -- Generalized Linear Mixed Effects Model in the Analysis of Longitudinal Discrete Data (Eunice Carrasquinha, M. Helena Gonçalves and M. Salomé Cabral) -- Risk Assessment on Campylobacter in Broiler Meat at Slaughter Level in Portugal (Marta Castel-Branco, Marília Antunes, Patrícia Inácio and Miguel Cardo) -- Predicting and Treating Missing Data with Boot.EXPOS (Clara Cordeiro and M. Manuela Neves) -- Bayesian Genetic Mapping of Binary Trait Loci (César Correia, Nuno Sepúlveda and Carlos Daniel Paulino) -- Concomitant Latent Class Models Applied to Mathematics Education (Maria Eugénia Ferrão and José G. Dias) -- Evaluating Discriminant Analysis Results (Ana Sousa Ferreira and Margarida Cardoso) -- Distribution of the Number of Losses in Busy-periods of MX /G/1/n Systems (Fátima Ferreira, António Pacheco and Helena Ribeiro) -- Misleading Signals in Simultaneous Residual Schemes for the Process Mean and Variance of AR(1) Processes: A Stochastic Ordering Approach (Patrícia Ferreira Ramos, Manuel Cabral Morais and António Pacheco) -- Conditional EVT for VAR Estimation: Comparison with a new Independence Test (M. I. Fraga Alves and P. Araújo Santos) -- Asymptotic Distribution of the Maximum for a Chaotic Economic Model (Ana Cristina Moreira Freitas) -- Adaptive Choice of Thresholds and the Bootstrap Methodology: An Empirical Study (M. Ivette Gomes, Fernanda Figueiredo and M. Manuela Neves) -- Distributional Properties of Generalized Threshold ARCH Models (E. Gonçalves and N. Mendes-Lopes) -- Preliminary Results on Confidence Intervals for Open Bonus Malus (Gracinda R. Guerreiro, João T. Mexia and Maria F. Miguens) -- Study of the Electrocardiographic Fluctuations on Brugada Syndrome Screening (Carla Henriques, Ana Cristina Matos and Luís Ferreira dos Santos) -- Circulatory System Diseases and Neoplasms Mortality on Older Portuguese Population: A Spatio-temporal Analysis by Age and Sex (Sandra Lagarto, Carla Nunes, Dulce Gomes and Maria Filomena Mendes) -- Absolute Diffusion Process: Sensitivity Measures (Manuela Larguinho, José Carlos Dias and Carlos A. Braumann) -- Scaling Exponents in Heart Rate Variability (Argentina Leite, Maria Eduarda Silva and Ana Paula Rocha) -- Prediction of Dementia Patients: A Comparative Approach Using Parametric vs. non Parametric Classifiers (João Maroco, Dina Silva, Manuela Guerreiro, Alexandre de Mendonça and Isabel Santana) -- Pareto Scale Mixtures (Miguel Martins Felgueiras) -- Fitting Johnson’s SB distribution to Forest Tree Diameter (Ayana Mateus and Margarida Tomé) -- On a Continuous Time Stock Price Model With two Mean Reverting Regimes (Pedro P. Mota) -- Generalized F Tests in Models With Random Perturbations: The Truncated Normal Case (Célia Nunes, Dário Ferreira, Sandra Ferreira and João T. Mexia) -- Generalized Linear Models, Generalized Additive Models and Neural Networks: Comparative Study in Medical Applications (Ana Luisa Papoila, Cristina Rocha, Carlos Geraldes and Patricia Xufre) -- Joint Regression Analysis and Incorporation of Environmental Variables in Stochastic Frontier Production Function: An Application to Experimental Data of Winter Rye (Dulce Gamito Pereira and Ana Sampaio) -- On the Maximum and Minimum of a Stationary Random Field (Luísa Pereira) -- Publication Bias and Meta-analytic Syntheses (D. Pestana, M. L. Rocha, R. Vasconcelos and S. Velosa) -- Self-perception of Health Status and Socio-economic Differences in the Use of Health Services (Alexandra Pinto, Victor Lobo, Fernando Bação and Helena Bacelar-Nicolau).- Comparison of Modal Variables Using Multivariate Analysis (Isabel Pinto Doria, Áurea Sousa, Helena Bacelar-Nicolau and Georges Le Calvé).- Disentangling the Relationship Between Entrepreneurship and Job Creation by Poisson Mixture Regressions (Leandro P. Pontes and José G. Dias).-Simulation Study of the Calibration Technique in the Extremal Index Estimation (D. Prata Gomes, João T. Mexia and M. Manuela Neves).- Semi-parametric Building of the Optimal Screening Region in Supervised Classification (Sandra Ramos, Maria Antónia Amaral Turkman and Marília Antunes).- An Application of Statistical Methods of Indirect Estimation and Projection of Internal Migration Flows Within the Portuguese Mainland (Maria FilomenaMendes, Antonio Caleiro, Sandra Lagarto and Filipe Ribeiro).- Robust Clustering Method for the Detection of Outliers: Using AIC to Select the Number of Clusters (Carla M. Santos-Pereira and Ana M. Pires).- HLA Allele and Haplotype Frequencies of the Portuguese Bone Marrow Donors Registry (Ricardo São João, Ana Luisa Papoila, Dário Ligeiro and Hélder Trindade).- Independent Component Analysis for Extended Time Series in Climate Data (Fernando Sebastião and Irene Oliveira).- Life Satisfaction: a MIMIC Approach With a Discrete Latent Variable (Patrícia Serra, José G. Dias and Maria de Fátima Salgueiro).- An Application of MRMC ROC Curves on Radiology (Carina Silva-Fortes, Maria Antónia Amaral Turkman, Luis Lança, Ricardo Silva and Gonçalo Marques).- Some Remarks About Gibbs Variable Selection Performance (Júlia Teles and Maria Antónia Amaral Turkman) -- Dependence of Multivariate Extremes (C. Viseu, L. Pereira, A.P. Martins and H. Ferreira).
This volume of the Selected Papers from Portugal is a product of the Seventeenth Congress of the Portuguese Statistical Society, held at the beautiful resort seaside city of Sesimbra, Portugal, from September 30 to October 3, 2009. It covers a broad scope of theoretical, methodological as well as application-oriented articles in domains such as: Linear Models and Regression, Survival Analysis, Extreme Value Theory, Statistics of Diffusions, Markov Processes and other Statistical Applications.
