Reference materials in measurement and technology : proceedings of the third international scientific conference
Chapter 1. Reference materials of the Russian Federation: Strategy of ensuring the uniformity of measurements until 2025 -- Chapter 2. Development of Interlaboratory Comparison Test Samples and Reference Materials for the Quality Assurance of air Composition Measurements -- Chapter 3. Metrological Assurance of Dioxin Measurements. A Certified Reference Material for Measuring the Dioxin Mass Fraction in Animal Fat -- Chapter 4. Development of Certified Reference Materials for Physicochemical Analysis. Certified Reference Solutions for the Composition of Aqueous Aluminium, Indium, Magnesium, Nickel and Titanium -- Chapter 5. Multiparametric Reference Materials for Metrological Support in the Area of Coating Parameter Control -- Chapter 6. Reference Materials Used for Specific Safety Evaluation of Human Immunoglobulin and Human Albumin Products: Features of Development, Certification and Application. .
The book covers in particular state-of-the-art scientific research about product quality control and related health and environmental safety topics, including human, animal and plant safety assurance issues. These conference proceedings provide contemporary information on the general theoretical, metrological and practical issues of the production and application of reference materials. Reference materials play an integral role in physical, chemical and related type of measurements, ensuring their uniformity, comparability and the validity of quantitative analysis as well as, as a result, the objectivity of decisions concerning the elimination of technical barriers in commercial and economic, scientific and technical and other spheres of cooperation. The book is intended for researchers and practitioners in the field of chemistry, metrologists, technical physics, as well as for specialists in analytical laboratories, or working for companies and organizations involved in the production, distribution and use of reference materials.
