Software Engineering Research and Applications : Second International Conference, SERA 2004, Los Angeles, CA, USA, May 5-7, 2004, Revised Selected Papers
It was our great pleasure to extend a welcome to all who participated in SERA 2004, the second International Conference on Software Engineering Research, Management and Applications, held at the Omni Hotel, Los Angeles, California, USA. The conference would not have been possible without the cooperation of Seoul National University, Korea, the University of Lübeck, Germany, and Central Michigan University, USA. SERA 2004 was sponsored by the International Association for Computer and Information Science (ACIS). The conference brought together researchers, practitioners, and advanced graduate students to exchange and share their experiences, new ideas, and research results in all aspects (theory, applications, and tools) of Software Engineering Research and Applications. At this conference, we had keynote speeches by Barry Boehm, C.V. Ramamoorthy, Raymond Yeh, and Con Kenney. We would like to thank the publicity chairs, the members of our program committees, and everyone else who helped with the conference for their hard work and time dedicated to SERA 2004. We hope that SERA 2004 was enjoyable for all participants. Barry Boehm May 2004 Preface The 2nd ACIS International Conference on Software Engineering – Research, Management and Applications (SERA 2004) was held at the Omni Hotel in Los Angeles, California, during May 5–7, 2004. The conference particularly welcomes contributions at the junction of theory and practice disseminating basic research with immediate impact on practical applications. The SERA conference series has witnessed a short, but successful history:.
Formal Methods and Tools -- Transforming Stream Processing Functions into State Transition Machines -- NuEditor – A Tool Suite for Specification and Verification of NuSCR -- Requirements Engineering and Reengineering -- Representing NFRs and FRs: A Goal-Oriented and Use Case Driven Approach -- MARMI-RE: A Method and Tools for Legacy System Modernization -- Component-Based Software Engineering -- A Study on Frameworks of Component Integration for Web Applications -- Software Process Models, Management and Improvement -- A Study on Metrics for Supporting the Software Process Improvement Based on SPICE -- Information Engineering -- Uniformly Handling Metadata Registries -- Network Layer XML Routing Using Lazy DFA -- Web Engineering and Web-Based Applications -- Extending UML for a Context-Based Navigation Modeling Framework of Web Information Systems -- Conversion of Topic Map Metadata to RDF Metadata for Knowledge Retrieval on the Web -- An Integrated Software Development Environment for Web Applications -- Parallel and Distributed Computing -- On the Design and Implementation of Parallel Programs Through Coordination -- Software Reuse and Metrics -- Reusability Analysis of Four Standard Object-Oriented Class Libraries -- Validation of an Approach for Quantitative Measurement and Prediction Model -- Object-Oriented Technology and Information Technology -- Slicing JavaTM Programs Using the JPDA and Dynamic Object Relationship Diagrams with XML -- Infrastructures for Information Technology Systems: Perspectives on Their Evolution and Impact -- Communications Systems and Networks -- The Trajectory Approach for the End-to-End Response Times with Non-preemptive FP/EDF* -- Web Service Based Inter-AS Connection Managements for QoS-Guaranteed DiffServ Provisioning.
