Embedded Processor Design Challenges : Systems, Architectures, Modeling, and Simulation — SAMOS
This textbook is intended to give an introduction to and an overview of sta- of-the-art techniques in the design of complex embedded systems. The book title is SAMOS for two major reasons. First, it tries to focus on the actual distinct, yet important problem ?elds of System-Level design of embedded systems, including mapping techniques and synthesis,Architectural design,Modeling issues such as speci?cation languages, formal models, and- nallySimulation. The second reason is that the volume includes a number of papers presented at a workshop with the same name on the Island of Samos, Greece, in July 2001. In order to receive international attention, a number of reputed researchers were invited to this workshop to present their current work. Participation was by invitation only. For the volume presented here, a number of additional papers where selected based on a call for papers. All contributions were refereed. This volume presents a selection of 18 of the refereed papers, including 2 invited papers. The textbook is organized according to four topics: The ?rst isA)System- LevelDesignandSimulation.Inthissection,wepresentacollectionofpapers that give an overview of the challenging goal to design and explore alternatives of embedded system implementations at the system-level. One paper gives an overview of models and tools used in system-level design. The other papers present new models to describe applications, provide models for re?nement and design space exploration, and for tradeo? analysis between cost and ?exibility of an implementation.
System-Level Design and Simulation -- Consistency Analysis of Reconfigurable Dataflow Specifications -- A Methodology to Design Programmable Embedded Systems -- Flexibility/Cost-Tradeoffs of Platform-Based Systems -- Towards Efficient Design Space Exploration of Heterogeneous Embedded Media Systems -- An Overview of Methodologies and Tools in the Field of System-Level Design -- Compiler and Mapping Technology -- Translating Imperative Affine Nested Loop Programs into Process Networks -- Structured Scheduling of Recurrence Equations: Theory and Practice -- Exact Partitioning of Affine Dependence Algorithms -- Generation of Distributed Loop Control -- Iterative Compilation -- Embedded Processors and Architectures -- Processor Architectures for Multimedia Applications -- Microcoded Reconfigurable Embedded Processors: Current Developments -- A Reconfigurable Functional Unit for TriMedia/CPU64. A Case Study -- Caches with Compositional Performance -- Design of an Adaptive Architecture for Energy Efficient Wireless Image Communication -- Applications -- Design of Cam-E-leon, a Run-Time Reconfigurable Web Camera -- A 2D Addressing Mode for Multimedia Applications -- A Java-Enabled DSP.
