Comprehending and confronting antisemitism : a multi-faceted approach
Frontmatter -- Table of Contents -- Preface and Acknowledgements -- Greetings -- I. Introduction to Combating Antisemitism -- General Introduction "An End to Antisemitism!" / Lange, Armin / Mayerhofer, Kerstin / Porat, Dina / Schiffman, Lawrence H. -- Executive Summary / Lange, Armin / Mayerhofer, Kerstin / Porat, Dina / Schiffman, Lawrence H. -- II. Leadership Talks -- Leadership Talk by the Federal Chancellor of the Republic of Austria (2017-2019) / Kurz, Sebastian -- Leadership Talk by the Austrian Federal Minister for Education, Science and Research (2018-2019) / Faßmann, Heinz -- Leadership Talk by the Federal Chancellor of the Republic of Austria (2016-2017); Chairman of the Social Democratic Party of Austria (2016-2018) / Kern, Christian -- Leadership Talk by the Executive Vice-President and CEO of the European Jewish Congress / Kalenova, Raya -- Leadership Talk by the European Commission Coordinator on Combating Antisemitism / Schnurbein, Katharina von -- Leadership Talk by the AJC Director of International Jewish Affairs; Personal Representative of the OSCE Chairperson-in-Office on Combating Anti-Semitism / Baker, Andrew -- Leadership Talk by the Chair of the Raoul Wallenberg Centre for Human Rights / Cotler, Irwin -- Leadership Talk by the Chairman of the Jewish Agency for Israel (2009-2018) / Sharansky, Natan -- Leadership Talk by the Director of the UNESCO Regional Bureau for Science and Culture in Europe, Venice / Massot Thompson-Flores, Ana Luiza -- Leadership Talk by the Bishop of the Protestant Church of Austria (2008-2019) / Bünker, Michael -- Leadership Talk by the Chief Rabbi of Vienna, Austria (2016-2019) / Folger, Arie -- Leadership Talk by the Imam of the municipal Drancy mosque Seine-Saint-Denis / Chalghoumi, Hassen -- Leadership Talk by the Rector of the Seminario Rabínico Latinoamericano Buenos Aires / Skorka, Abraham -- III. Religion -- Contributions -- Jews and Judaism between Bedevilment and Source of Salvation: Christianity as a Cause of and a Cure against Antisemitism / Lange, Armin / Grossman, Maxine L. -- Redeeming Humanity from the Evil of the Jews: Islamist Rationalization of Antisemitism / Webman, Esther -- Scrolls, Testament and Talmud: Issues of Antisemitism in the Study of Ancient Judaism / Schiffman, Lawrence H. -- Recommendations -- Recommendations regarding Religious Groups and Institutions -- IV. Culture, Education, Research -- Contributions -- Contemporary Philosophical and Ethical Fights over Jews, Judaism, and the State of Israel / Schoeps, Julius H. -- Antisemitism: Sociological Perspectives / Ben-Rafael, Eliezer -- The Psychology of Modern Antisemitism: Theory, Research, and Methodology / Cohen Abady, Florette -- The Demonization of Judaism / Davidowicz, Klaus S. -- "Antisemitism 2.0"-The Spreading of Jew-hatred on the World Wide Web / Schwarz-Friesel, Monika -- Combatting Antisemitism: An Interdisciplinary Approach / Rothgangel, Martin -- Recommendations -- Recommendations regarding Cultural Organizations and Institutions -- Recommendations regarding the Internet, its Influencers and its Users -- Recommendations regarding Academic Organizations and Institutions -- Recommendations regarding Educational Organizations and Institutions -- V. Politics, Business and Jurisprudence -- Contributions -- Jews and Non-Jews in Ancient Cities: Alexandria, Antioch, Caesarea, Rome / Isaac, Benjamin -- Jews against Zionism/Israel: On the Ambivalences of Contemporary Jewish Identity / Friesel, Evyatar -- The Fight against Antisemitism and the Iranian Regime: Challenges and Contradictions in the Light of Adorno's Categorical Imperative / Grigat, Stephan -- The IHRA Working Definition of Antisemitism / Weitzman, Mark -- The Working Definition of Antisemitism - A 2018 Perception / Porat, Dina -- Counteracting Antisemitism with Tools of Law: An Effort Doomed to Failure? / Gliszczyńska-Grabias, Aleksandra -- Equal Treatment, not just Religious Freedom: On the Methods of Slaughtering Animals for Human Consumption / Wieshaider, Wolfgang -- Recommendations -- Recommendations regarding Organizations and Institutions of the Business World -- Recommendations regarding Governments, Political Organizations, and Institutions -- VI. IHRA Working Definition of Antisemitism -- IHRA Working Definition of Antisemitism -- VII. Editorial Board and List of Contributors -- Editorial Board -- List of Contributors -- Acknowledgements
