Recent Trends in Philosophical Logic
Chapter 1. Semantic Defectiveness: A Dissolution of Semantic Pathology; Bradley Armour-Garb and James A. Woodbridge -- Chapter 2. Emptiness and discharge in sequent calculus and natural deduction; Michael Arndt and Luca Tranchini -- Chapter 3. The Knowability Paradox in the light of a Logic for Pragmatics; Massimiliano Carrara and Daniele Chi -- Chapter 4. A Dialetheic Interpretation of Classical Logic; Massimiliano Carrara and Enrico Martino -- Chapter 5. Strongly semantic information as information about the truth; Gustavo Cevolani -- Chapter 6. Priest's Motorbike and Tolerant Identity; Pablo Cobreros, Paul Egré, David Ripley and Robert van Rooij -- Chapter 7. How to unify Russellian and Strawsonian definite descriptions; Marie Duži -- Chapter 8. Tableau Metatheorem for Modal Logics; Tomasz Jarmuzek -- Chapter 9. On the Essential Flatness of Possible Worlds; Neil Kennedy -- Chapter 10. Collective Alternatives; Franz von Kutschera -- Chapter 11. da Costa meets Belnap and Nelson; Hitoshi Omori and Katsuhiko Sano -- Chapter 12. Explicating the Notion of Truth within Transparent Intensional Logic;  Jiří Raclavský -- Chapter 13. Leibnizian intensional semantics for syllogistic reasoning; Robert van Rooij -- Chapter 14. Inter-Model Connectives and Substructural Logics; Igor Sedlár
This volume presents recent advances in philosophical logic with chapters focusing on non-classical logics, including paraconsistent logics, substructural logics, modal logics of agency and other modal logics. The authors cover themes such as the knowability paradox, tableaux and sequent calculi, natural deduction, definite descriptions, identity, truth, dialetheism, and possible worlds semantics.   The developments presented here focus on challenging problems in the specification of fundamental philosophical notions, as well as presenting new techniques and tools, thereby contributing to the development of the field. Each chapter contains a bibliography, to assist the reader in making connections in the specific areas covered. Thus this work provides both a starting point for further investigations into philosophical logic and an update on advances, techniques and applications in a dynamic field.   The chapters originate from papers presented during the Trends in Logic XI conference at the Ruhr University Bochum, June 2012
