Historical perspectives on sports economics : lessons from the field
"The sports sector, apart from being of economic significance in itself, is clearly one that many citizens share a great interest in. It is not mere results, but aspects such as history, statistics, interest in labour markets and finances that often spark people's interest. The characteristics of the sports sector and the data it provides allows economists to cast light on a large number of economic issues facing society. Historical Perspectives on Sports Economics explores a variety of topics, including mega-event analysis, sports governance, anthropometrics, gambling, industrial organisation, infrastructure development and racial issues. The analysis is sufficiently non-technical and will appeal not only to academic economists and students, but to historians and sports enthusiasts as well"--
Contents: Preface -- 1. Understanding economics through the history of sport / John Wilson -- 2. From recreational sports clubs to sports businesses: Bradford and Queen's Park football clubs 1860s-1914 / John Dewhirst and Wray Vamplew -- 3. Home ground advantage: The determinants of sharing versus sole occupied stadium arrangements / Richard Pomfret and John K. Wilson -- 4. Stadium construction and the distribution of winning percentages in the English and Scottish football leagues, 1888-89 to 1938-39 / Lionel Frost, Luc Borrowman, Vinod Mishra and Abdel K. Halabi -- 5. The rise and fall (and rise and fall) of the Olympic Games as an economic driver / Victor Matheson -- 6. The winter sports industry and Winter Olympics in historical perspective: From Grenoble 1968 to Albertville 1992 / Wladimir Andreff -- 7. Incomplete contracting, league governance, and the role of the commissioner in Japanese and North American professional baseball / Akihiko Kawaura and Sumner La Croix -- 8. Baseball and life expectancy: Evidence from linked historical data / Joseph Price, Sebastian Brown, and Jacob Van Leeuwen -- 9. The height and weight of Canadian major league hockey players, 1909-2010 / J. Andrew Ross, John Cranfield, and Kris Inwood -- 10. Beating the odds: Black jockeys in the Kentucky Derby, 1870-1911 / Michael Leeds and Hugh Rockoff -- 11. Betting on sport: History, regulation, measurement / Pierre-Charles Pradier -- 12. Club survival in the English Premier League: What does it take to survive in the top flight? / Jeffrey Chang, Luc Borrowman and Lionel Frost -- 13. Epilogue - Looking forward -- Index.
