Knowledge of the law in the big data age
The changes brought about by digital technology and the consequent explosion of information known as Big Data have brought opportunities and challenges in all areas of society, and the law is no exception.This book, Knowledge of the Law in the Big Data Age contains a selection of the papers presented at the conference "Law via the Internet 2018", held in Florence, Italy, on 11-12 October 2018. This annual conference of the "Free Access to Law Movement" (http://www.fatlm.org) hosted more than 60 international speakers from universities, government and research bodies as well as EU institutions.Topics covered range from free access to law and Big Data and data analytics in the legal domain, to policy issues concerning access, publishing and the dissemination of legal information, tools to support democratic participation and opportunities for digital democracy. The book is divided into 3 sections: Part I provides an introductory background, covering aspects such as the evolution of legal science and models for representing the law; Part II addresses the present and future of access to law and to various legal information sources; and Part III covers updates in projects, initiatives, and concrete achievements in the field. The book provides an overview of the practical implementation of legal information systems and the tools to manage this special kind of information, as well as some of the critical issues which must be faced, and will be of interest to all those working at the intersection of law and technology. --
Preface / Ginevra Peruginelli and Sebastiano Faro -- Part I. Encountering big data and law -- Legal epistemology in the times of big data / Vincenzo Zeno-Zencovich -- Knowledge machineries. Introducing the instrument-enabled future of legal research and practice / Nicola Lettieri -- Entropy indigital information and the enforcement of law: Towards a unification of remedies? / Giorgio Giannone Codiglione -- Closing the awareness gap between IT practice and IT law / François Mestre, Victor Rodriguez-Doncel and Pompeu Casanovas -- Automation, legislative production and modernization of the legislative machine: The new frontiers of artificial intelligence applied to law and e-democracy / Gianluigi Fioriglio -- Reasoning with deontic notions in a decidable framework / Enrico Francesconi -- Part II. Challenges and opportunities in disseminating and accessing legal information. -- Section II.1. Rules, policies and publication models -- The EU Council conclusions on the online publication of court decisions / Marc Van Opijnen -- Personalised dissemination of legal infromation / Václav Janeček -- Right to science and open access to legal knowledge in international and European law / Gianpaolo Maria Ruotolo -- Open science, open doctrine, how to share knowledge? / Marie Farge and Jean Gasnault -- Tools for discovery: Opening doors to legal research / Ginevra Peruginelli and Sebastiano Faro -- Section II.2. Interoperability and standards -- The European legislation identifier / Thomas Francart, John Dann, Roberto Pappalardo, Carmen Malagon and Marco Pellegrino -- Improving public access to legislation through legal citations detection: The Linkoln Project at the Italian Senate / Lorenzo Bacci, Tommaso Agnoloni, Carlo Marchetti and Roberto Battistoni -- Akoma Ntoso for making FAO Resolutions accessible / Monica Palmirani -- Language resources as linked data for the legal domain / Patricia Martin-Chozas, Elena Montiel-Ponsoda and Victor Rodriguez-Doncel -- DaPIS: An ontology-based data protection icon set / Arianna Rossi and Monica Palmirani -- Part III. Experiences, good practices and critical issues -- Legal information institutes and AI: Free access legal expertise / Graham Greenleaf, Andrew Mowbray and Phillip Chung -- Semantic Finlex: Transforming, publishing, and using Finnish legislation and case law as linked open data on the web / Arttu Oksanen, Minna Tamper, Jouni Tuominen, Eetu Mäkelä, Aki Hietanen and Eero Hyvönen -- Lost in the flood? The Library of the Court of Justice of the European Union and its foreseeable future / Fabio Pappalardo -- The Rutgers Law Library U.S. Congressional documents digitization collection / John Joergensen -- EU judicial procedures and case law databases: What's going on and what may lay ahead? / Elena Alina Ontanu and Marco Velicogna -- A model of justice as a platform: A case study of open data disclosure / Giulio Michetti, Arianna Toniolo, Simone Rossi and Alessandro Pirani -- Dealing with privacy issues in data integration: Scenarios for official statistics / Piero Demetrio Falorsi, Brunero Liseo and Monica Scannapieco -- Opportunities and challenges in the legal tech services in the Italian and European framework / Giuseppe Vaciago -- Subject Index -- Author Index
