Dynamics of Information Systems: Mathematical Foundations
This proceedings publication is a compilation of selected contributions from the “Third International Conference on the Dynamics of Information Systems” which took place at the University of Florida, Gainesville, February 16–18, 2011. The purpose of this conference was to bring together scientists and engineers from industry, government, and academia in order to exchange new discoveries and results in a broad range of topics relevant to the theory and practice of dynamics of information systems. Dynamics of Information Systems: Mathematical Foundations presents state-of-the art research and is intended for graduate students and researchers interested in some of the most recent discoveries in information theory and dynamical systems. Scientists in other disciplines may also benefit from the applications of new developments to their own area of study. Information systems play an increasingly critical role in our society; the influence of information on social, biological, genetic, and military systems must be better understood in order to achieve advances in the capability and understanding of these systems. Applications presented in this work are widespread and include research in evolutionary theory, optimization of information workflow, military applications, climate networks, collision work, and much more.
1. Dynamics of Information and Optimal Control of Mutation in Evolutionary Systems -- 2. Integration Principle as the Master Equation of the Dynamics of an Information System -- 3. On the Optimization of InformationWorkflow -- 4. Characterization of the Operator Cognitive State Using Response Times During Semi-autonomousWeapon Task Assignment -- 5. Correntropy in Data Classification -- 6. Algorithms for Finding Diameter-constrained Graphs with Maximum Algebraic Connectivity -- 7. Robustness and Strong Attack Tolerance of Low-Diameter Networks -- 8. Dynamics of Climate Networks -- 9. Sensor Scheduling for Space Object Tracking and Collision Alert -- 10. Throughput Maximization in CSMA Networks with Collisions and Hidden Terminals -- 11. Optimal Formation Switching with Collision Avoidance and Allowing Variable Agent Velocities -- 12. Computational Studies of Randomized Multidimensional Assignment Problems -- 13. On Some Special Network Flow Problems: The Shortest Path Tour Problems -- 14. A Hierarchical Multi-modal Hybrid Stackelberg-Nash GA for a Leader with Multiple Followers Game -- 15. The Role of Information in Nonzero-Sum Differential Games -- 16. Information Considerations in Multi-person Cooperative Control/Decision Problems: Information Sets, Sufficient Information Flows and Risk-Averse Decision Rules for Performance Robustness -- 17. Modeling Interactions in Complex Systems: Self-Coordination, Game-Theoretic Design Protocols, and Performance-Reliability Aided Decision Making.
