Middleware 2000 : IFIP/ACM International Conference on Distributed Systems Platforms and Open Distributed Processing New York, NY, USA, April 4–7, 2000 Proceedings
Middleware is everywhere. Ever since the advent of sockets and other virtu- circuit abstractions, researchers have been looking for ways to incorporate high- value concepts into distributed systems platforms. Most distributed applications, especially Internet applications, are now programmed using such middleware platforms. Prior to 1998, there were several major conferences and workshops at which research into middleware was reported, including ICODP (International C- ference on Open Distributed Processing), ICDP (International Conference on Distributed Platforms) and SDNE (Services in Distributed and Networked - vironments). Middleware’98was a synthesis of these three conferences. Middleware 2000 continued the excellent tradition of Middleware’98. It p- vided a single venue for reporting state-of-the-art results in the provision of distributed systems platforms. The focus of Middleware 2000 was the design, implementation, deployment, and evaluation of distributed systems platforms and architectures for future networked environments. Among the 70 initial submissions to Middleware 2000, 21 papers were - lected for inclusion in the technical program of the conference. Every paper was reviewed by four members of the program committee. The papers were judged - cording to their originality, presentation quality, and relevance to the conference topics. The accepted papers cover various subjects such as caching, re?ection, quality of service, and transactions.
Caching -- Implementing a Caching Service for Distributed CORBA Objects -- A Middleware System Which Intelligently Caches Query Results -- Distributed Object Implementations for Interactive Applications -- Indirection -- MIMO — An Infrastructure for Monitoring and Managing Distributed Middleware Environments -- Gateways for Accessing Fault Tolerance Domains -- An Architecture for Distributed OASIS Services -- Reflection -- Monitoring, Security, and Dynamic Configuration with the dynamicTAO Reflective ORB -- Customization of Object Request Brokers by Application Specific Policies -- The Role of Software Architecture in Constraining Adaptation in Component-Based Middleware Platforms -- Messaging -- Exploiting IP Multicast in Content-Based Publish-Subscribe Systems -- The Design and Performance of a Scalable ORB Architecture for CORBA Asynchronous Messaging -- A Publish/Subscribe CORBA Persistent State Service Prototype -- Quality of Service -- QualProbes: Middleware QoS Profiling Services for Configuring Adaptive Applications -- Structuring QoS-Supporting Services with Smart Proxies -- Trading and Negotiating Stream Bindings -- Transactions and Workflow -- Strategies for Integrating Messaging and Distributed Object Transactions -- A Distributed Object Oriented Framework to Offer Transactional Support for Long Running Business Processes -- Active Middleware Services in a Decision Support System for Managing Highly Available Distributed Resources -- Composition -- The Design and Performance of a Pluggable Protocols Framework for Real-Time Distributed Object Computing Middleware -- Customizing IDL Mappings and ORB Protocols -- Hierarchical Architecture for Real-Time Adaptive Resource Management.
