Global reformations : transforming early modern religions, societies, and cultures
"Global Reformations offers a sustained, comparative, and interdisciplinary exploration of religious transformations in the early modern world. Exploring the convergence of religious reform, global expansion, and governmental consolidation, it asks how a global frame complicates our understanding of what the Reformation itself was and offers a unique and up-to-date examination of the Reformation. Demonstrating new research and innovative approaches in the study of cross-cultural contact during the early modern period, this volume is ideal for advanced undergraduates and graduates of Early Modern History, Religious History, Women & Gender Studies and Global History"--
Global reformations: reframing early modern Christianity / Nicholas Terpstra -- Religious expansion in Islam, Catholicism, and Buddhism / Luke Clossey -- Translating Christian martyrdom in Buddhist Japan in the early modern Jesuit mission / Haruko Nawata Ward -- Gypsies in Counter-reformation Rome / Giorgio Caravale -- "Turning Turke" the Anabaptist way: Muslims, Jews, Christian spiritualists, and polemical discourse in the Dutch republic, c. 1570 to c. 1630 / Gary K. Waite -- Before the ghetto: spatial logics, Jewish experience, and Jewish-Christian relations in early modern Florence / Justine Walden -- To be a foreigner in early modern Italy. Were there ghettos for non-Catholic Christians? / Stefano Villani -- Maintaining colonial order: institutional enclosure in Spanish Manila, 1590-1790 / Allison Graham -- The Renaissance papacy and Catholicization of the "Manichean heretics": rethinking the 1459 purge of the Bosnian kingdom / Luka Spoljaric -- Creole conquests: reformation, representation, and return in early colonial New Spain / Lindsay Sidders -- An embattled Catholic archbishop between Latins and Greeks in the Ottoman Aegean / Andrew P. McCormick -- Reforming birth in early colonial Mexico, or, did Mexican women really have a Counter-Reformation? / Jacqueline Holler -- The Venetian Jewish household as a multi-religious community in early modern Italy / Federica Francesconi -- Exile identity and the Pietist reform movement: constructing the Georgia Salzburgers from Alpine Crypto Protestants / Christine Marie Koch.
