Mathematical Statistics and Probability Theory : Proceedings, Sixth International Conference, Wisła (Poland), 1978
Since 1972 the Institute of Mathematics and the Committee of Mathematics of the Polish Academy of Sciences organize annually con­ ferences on mathematical statistics in Wisla. The 1978 conference, supported also by the University of Wroclaw,was held in Wisla from December 7 to December 13 and attended by around 100 participants from 11 countries. K. Urbanik, Rector of the University of Wroclaw, was the honorary chairman of the conference. Traditionally at these conferences there are presented results on mathematical statistics and related fields obtained in Poland during the year of the conference as well as results presented by invited scholars from other countries. In 1978 invitations to present talks were accepted by 20 e~inent statisticians and probabilists. The topics of the invited lectures and contributed papers included theoretical statistics with a broad cover of the theory of linear models, inferences from stochastic processes, probability theory and applications to biology and medicine. In these notes there appear papers submitted by 30 participants of the conference. During the conference, on December 9, there was held a special session of the Polish Mathematical Society on the occasion of elect­ ing Professor Jerzy Neyman the honorary member of the Polish Mathematical Society. At this session W. Orlicz, president of the Polish Mathematical Society, K.Krickeberg,president of the Bernoulli Society. R. Bartoszynski and K. Doksum gave talks on Neyman IS con­ tribution to statistics, his organizational achievements in the U.S.
A Model for Nonparametric Regression Analysis of Counting Processes -- On Superpositions of Random Measures and Point Processes -- Application and Optimality of the Chi-Square Test of Fit for Testing ? — Validity of Parametric Models -- On the Notion of Efficiency of a Block Design -- An Asymptotic Expansion for Distributions of C (?) Test Statistics -- Properties of Realizations of Random Fields -- Monotone Dependence Function: Background, New Results and Applications -- Lifetesting for Matched Pairs -- D-Optimum Designs for the Interblock-Model -- Locally Best Linear Estimation in Euclidean Vector Spaces -- On Statistical Problems of Stochastic Processes with Penetrable Boundaries -- On Two-Sided Nonparametric Tests for the Two-Sample Problem -- On Limit Theorems for Sums of Dependent Hilbert Space Valued Random Variables -- C. R. Rao’s MINQUE for Replicated and Multivariate Observations -- Invariant Quadratic Unbiased Estimation for Variance Components -- Mixtures of Infinitely Divisible Distributions as Limit Laws for Sums of Dependent Random Variables -- Conditional Expectations of Selectors and Jensen’s Inequality -- Some Results on Biased Linear Estimation Applied to Variance Component Estimation -- Estimation Problem for the Exponential Class of Distributions from Delayed Observations -- Statistical Analysis of Nonestimable Functionals. Part I: Estimation -- A Correcting Note to “Statistical Analysis of Nonestimable Functions. Part I: Estimation” -- Estimation for Some Classes of Gaussian Markov Processes -- Estimation of Regression Parameters of Gaussian Markov Processes -- Some Remarks on the Central Limit Theorem in Branch Spaces -- Characterization of Covariance Operators Which Guarantee the CLT -- Fixed Precision Estimate of Mean of a Gaussian Sequence with Unknown Covariance Structure -- A Characterization of Best Linear Unbiased Estimators in the General Linear Model.
