Documents and the history of early Islamic world : [3rd Conference of the International Society for Arabic Papyrology, Alexandria, 23-26 March 2006]
1.2.3.4.5.6.7.8.9.10.11.12.13.14.15.Introduction /Administration & Government:A late Ayyubid report of death found at Quṣayr al-Qadīm /On the identity of Shahrālānyōzān in the Greek and Middle Persian papyri from Egypt /Le monastere de baouit et l'administration arabe /Fiscal evidence from the nessana Papyri /Commerce & Travel:Travel in Coptic documentary texts /Le transport de marchandises et de personnes sur le Nil en 823 A.H./1420 È.C. /Language & Culture:P. Cair. Arab. III 167: a discussion of the Akhmim declaration /Greek and Arabic in Nessana /The master spoke : take one of 'the sun' and one unit of almulgam": hitherto unnoticed coptic papyrological evidence for early Arabic alchemy /Terms for vessels in Arabic and Coptic documentary texts and their archaeological and ethnographic correlates /A Qurānic amulet on papyrus: P. Utah. Ar. 342 /New Editions & Collections:Les papyrus arabes de Heidelberg disparus : essai de reconstruction et d'analyse /Two new Arabic editions : a land survey from ihnās and ḥadīths concerning funerary practice /Sunshine wine on the Nile /Hugh Kennedy --Anne Regourd;Jairus Banaji;Alain Delattre;Shaun O'Sullivan --Anna Selander;Frédéric Bauden --Mostafa El-Abbadi;Rachel Stroumsa;Tonio Sebastian Richter;Tascha Vorderstrasse;Matt Malczycki --R.G. Khoury;Alia Hanafi;Nicole Hansen.
Historians have long lamented the lack of contemporary documentary sources for the Islamic middle ages and the inhibiting effect this has had on our understanding of this critically important period. Although the field is richly served by surviving evidence, much of it is hard to locate, difficult to access, and philiogically intractable. Presenting a mixture of historical studies and new editions of Greek, Arabic and Coptic material from the seventh to the fifteenth century C.E. from Egypt and Palestine, this book explores the untapped wealth of documentary sources available in collections around the world and shows how this exciting material can be used for historical analysis
