Computation, Cryptography, and Network Security
Analysis, assessment, and data management are core competencies for operation research analysts. This volume addresses a number of issues and developed methods for improving those skills. It is an outgrowth of a conference held in April 2013 at the Hellenic Military Academy, and brings together a broad variety of mathematical methods and theories with several applications. It discusses directions and pursuits of scientists that pertain to engineering sciences. It is also presents the theoretical background required for algorithms and techniques applied to a large variety of concrete problems. A number of open questions as well as new future areas are also highlighted.   This book will appeal to operations research analysts, engineers, community decision makers, academics, the military community, practitioners sharing the current “state-of-the-art,” and analysts from coalition partners. Topics covered include Operations Research, Games and Control Theory, Computational Number Theory and Information Security, Scientific Computing and Applications, Statistical Modeling and Applications, Systems of Monitoring and Spatial Analysis.
Transformations of Cryptographic Schemes Through Interpolation Techniques (S.-A.N. Alexandropoulos, G.C. Meletiou, D.S. Triantafyllou, M.N. Vrahatis) -- Flaws in the Initialization Process of Stream Ciphers (A. Alhamdan, H. Bartlett, E. Dawson, L. Simpson, K. Koon-Ho Wong) -- Producing Fuzzy Includion and Entropy Measures (A.C. Bogiatzis, B.K. Papadopoulos) -- On Some Recent Results on Asymptotic Behavior of Orthogonal Polynomials on the Unit Circle and Inserting Point Masses (K. Castillo, F. Marcellán) -- On the Unstable Equilibrium Points and System Separations in Electric Power Systems: a Numerical Study (J. Cui, H.-D. Chiang, T. Wang) -- Security and Formation of Network-Centric Operations (N.J. Daras) -- A Bio-Inspired Hybrid Artificial Intelligence Framework for Cyber Security (K. Demertzis, L. Iliadis) -- Integral Estimates for the Composition of Green's and Bounded Operators (S. Ding, Y. Xing) -- A Survey of Reverse Inequalities for f-Divergence Measure in Information Theory (S.S. Dragomir) -- On Geometry of the Zeros of a Polynomial (N.K. Govil, E.R. Nwaeze) -- Approximation by Durrmeyer Type Operators Preserving Linear Functions (V. Gupta) -- Revisiting the Complex Multiplication Method for the Construction of Elliptic Curves (E. Konstantinou, A. Kontogeorgis) -- Generalized Laplace Transform Inequalities in Multiple Weighted Orlicz Spaces (J. Kuang) -- Threshold Secret Sharing Through Multivariate Birkhoff Interpolation (V.E. Markoutis, G.C. Meletiou, A.N. Veneti, M.N. Vrahatis) -- Advanced Truncated Differential Attacks Against GOST Block Cipher and its Variants (T. Mourouzis, N. Courtois) -- A Supply Chain Game Theory Framework for Cybersecurity Investments Under Network Vulnerability (A. Nagurney, L.S. Nagurney, S. Shukla) -- A Method for Creating Private and Anonymous Digital Territories Using Attribute-Based Credential Technologies (P.E. Nastou, D. Nastouli, P.M. Pardalos, Y.C Stamatiou) -- Quantam Analogues of Hermite-Hadamard Type Inequalities forN Which is Implemented in MuPAD and Whose Computability is an Open Problem (A. Tyszka) -- Image Encryption Scheme Based on Non-Autonomous Chaotic Systems (C.K. Volos, I.M. Kyprianidis, I. Stouboulos, V.-T. Pham) -- Multiple Parameterized Yang-Hilbert-Type Integral Inequalities (B. Yang) -- Parameterized Yang-Hilbert-Type Integral Inequalities and their Operator Expressions (B. Yang, M.Th. Rassias) -- A Secure Communication Design Based on the Chaotic Logistic Map: an Experimental Realization Using Arduino Microcontrollers (M. Zapateiro De la Hoz, L. Acho, Y. Vidal)
