Intelligent communication, control and devices : proceedings of ICICCD 2018
The book focuses on the integration of intelligent communication systems, control systems, and devices related to all aspects of engineering and sciences. It includes high-quality research papers from the 3rd international conference, ICICCD 2018, organized by the Department of Electronics, Instrumentation and Control Engineering at the University of Petroleum and Energy Studies, Dehradun on 21–22 December 2018. Covering a range of recent advances in intelligent communication, intelligent control and intelligent devices., the book presents original research and findings as well as researchers’ and industrial practitioners’ practical development experiences of
Chapter 1. Performance Improvement of Three Phase Squirrel Cage Induction Motor Operating Under Rated Voltages - A Design Consideration for Rural Areas -- Chapter 2. Design and Analysis of a Broad-Gain-Bandwidth Metasurface Antenna for Computational Microwave Imaging -- Chapter 3. A Rate Control Algorithm to Improve TCP over RFID Reader Network -- Chapter 4. A Binary Harmony Search Algorithm Approach for Security constrained allocation of PMUs to obtain Complete Network Observability -- Chapter 5. Ledger Based Sorting Algorithm -- Chapter 6. A Survey on Wireless Optical Communication: Potential & Challenges -- Chapter 7. Microwave Imaging of the Breast with a Ring Shaped DRA (Dielectric Resonator Antenna) for Cancer Detection -- Chapter 8. Simulation and Analysis of Distinct Apodized Profiles Using Fiber Bragg Grating For Dispersion Compensation at 100Gbps Over 120Km -- Chapter 9. Development of Integrated Distance Authentication and Finger Print Authorization Mechanism to Reduce Fraudulent Online Transaction -- Chapter 10. A Comparative Analysis of Infrared and Visible Image Fusion Methods in Transform Domain -- Chapter 11. Selection of Optimal Performance Parameters of Alumina/Water Nanofluid Flow in Ribbed Square Duct by Using AHP-TOPSIS Techniques -- Chapter 12. A Review: Soil Moisture Estimation Using Different Techniques -- Chapter 13. Monostatic Radar Based Ultra-Wideband Microwave Imaging System Featuring a Miniature Fork Shaped Microstrip Patch Antenna with a Reduced DGS for Early Breast Tumor Detection -- Chapter 14. An Enhanced Authentication Technique to Mitigate the Online Transaction Fraud -- Chapter 15. A Study of Factors to Predict At-risk Students Based on Machine Learning Techniques
