Formal Techniques for Networked and Distributed Sytems — FORTE 2002 : 22nd IFIP WG 6.1 International Conference Houston, Texas, USA, November 11–14, 2002 Proceedings
The IFIP TC6 WG 6.1 Joint International Conference on Formal Techniques for Networked and Distributed Systems, FORTE 2002, was held this year at Rice University, Houston, Texas, on November 11–14. This annual conference provides a forum for researchers and practitioners from universities and industry to meet and advance technologies in areas of speci?cation, testing, and veri?cation of distributed systems and communication protocols. The main topics are: – FDT-based system and protocol engineering. – Semantical foundations. – Extensions of FDTs. – Formal approaches to concurrent/distributed object-oriented systems. – Real-time and probability aspects. – Performance modeling and analysis. – Quality of service modeling and analysis. – Veri?cation and validation. – Relations between informal and formal speci?cation. – FDT-based protocol implementation. – Software tools and support environments. – FDT application to distributed systems. – Protocol testing, including conformance testing, interoperability testing, and performance testing. – Test generation, selection, and coverage. – Practical experience and case studies. – Corporate strategic and ?nancial consequences of using formal methods. A total of 61 papers were submitted to FORTE 2002, and reviewed by m- bers of the program committee and additional reviewers. The program committee selected 22 regular papers, two tool papers, and two posters for presentation at the conference. The program also included three tutorials and ?ve invited talks.
Encoding PAMR into (Timed) EFSMs -- Submodule Construction for Specifications with Input Assumptions and Output Guarantees -- Congruent Weak Conformance, a Partial Order among Processes -- Symmetric Symbolic Safety-Analysis of Concurrent Software with Pointer Data Structures -- A Nested Depth First Search Algorithm for Model Checking with Symmetry Reduction -- Protocol Techniques for Testing Radiotherapy Accelerators -- System Test Synthesis from UML Models of Distributed Software -- Formal Test Purposes and the Validity of Test Cases -- Use of Logic to Describe Enhanced Communications Services -- A Formal Venture into Reliable Multicast Territory -- Modelling SIP Services Using Cress -- Verifying Reliable Data Transmission over UMTS Radio Interface with High Level Petri Nets -- Verifying Randomized Byzantine Agreement_ -- Automatic SAT-Compilation of Protocol Insecurity Problems via Reduction to Planning -- Visual Specifications for Modular Reasoning about Asynchronous Systems -- Bounded Model Checking for Timed Systems -- C Wolf - A Toolset for Extracting Models from C Programs -- NTIF: A General Symbolic Model for Communicating Sequential Processes with Data -- Building Tools for LOTOS Symbolic Semantics in Maude -- From States to Transitions: Improving Translation of LTL Formulae to Büchi Automata -- A Compositional Sweep-Line State Space Exploration Method -- On Combining the Persistent Sets Method with the Covering Steps Graph Method -- Innovative Verification Techniques Used in the Implementation of a Third-Generation 1.1GHz 64b Microprocessor -- Mechanical Translation of I/O Automaton Specifications into First-Order Logic -- Verification of Event-Based Synchronization of SpecC Description Using Difference Decision Diagrams -- A Distributed Partial Order Reduction Algorithm.
