Associative and non-associative algebras and applications : 3rd MAMAA, Chefchaouen, Morocco, April 12-14, 2018
Part I: Algebraic and Analytic methods in associative and non-associative structures. Applications -- Behn, A., Casado Y. C. and Molina M. S: Isomorphisms of four dimensional perfect non-simple evolution algebras -- Ouattara, M. and Savadogo, S: Power-associative evolution algebras -- Cabrera-Padilla, M. G., Jiménez-Vargas A. and Villegas-Vallecillos, M: A survey on isometries between Lipschitz spaces -- Carmona, J., López-Martínez, S. and Martínez-Aparicio P. J: The principal eigenvalue for a class of singular quasilinear elliptic operators and applications -- Martín, A. J. C., Dieme, B., and Izquierdo F. J. N: Non-commutative Poisson algebras admitting a multiplicative basis -- García, M. C. and Palacios, Á . R: Multiplication algebras: algebraic and analytic aspects -- Oudghiri, M. and Souilah, K: Generalized Drazin inverse and commuting Riesz perturbations -- Louzari, M. and Reyes, A: Generalized rigid modules and their polynomial extensions -- Martín, A. J. C., Gaye, B., and Izquierdo F. J. N: n-Ary k -actions between sets and their applications -- Badry, M. E., Abdallaoui, M. A., and Haily, A: Primary group rings -- Diop, Y., Mesmoudi, L. and Sow, D: Semi-ring based Gröbner-Shirshov bases over a noetherian valuation ring -- Haynou, M. and Mohammed Taous, M: The 4-rank of the class group of some real pure quartic number ﬁelds -- Part II: Homological and categorical methods in algebra -- Bulacu, D., and Torrecillas, B: Frobenius monoidal algebras and related topics -- Dembele, B., Maaouia M. B. F. and Sanghare, M: The functor SC−1 () and its relationship with homological functors T orn and E XT n -- Kaoutit, L. E.: BOCSES over small linear categories and corings -- Ammar, F., Ayadi, I., Mabrouk, S., and Makhlouf, A: Quadratic color Hom-Lie algebras -- Abdelalim, S., Chaichaa, A. and Garn, M. E: The extension property in the category of direct sum of cyclic torsion-free modules over a BFD -- Part III: History of Mathematics -- Azizi, A.: Arabic Scientiﬁc and technical Heritage in Morocco.
This book gathers together selected contributions presented at the 3rd Moroccan Andalusian Meeting on Algebras and their Applications, held in Chefchaouen, Morocco, April 12-14, 2018, and which reflects the mathematical collaboration between south European and north African countries, mainly France, Spain, Morocco, Tunisia and Senegal. The book is divided in three parts and features contributions from the following fields: algebraic and analytic methods in associative and non-associative structures; homological and categorical methods in algebra; and history of mathematics. Covering topics such as rings and algebras, representation theory, number theory, operator algebras, category theory, group theory and information theory, it opens up new avenues of study for graduate students and young researchers. The findings presented also appeal to anyone interested in the fields of algebra and mathematical analysis.
