Early printed narrative literature in Western Europe
Frontmatter -- Acknowledgements -- Contents -- List of Abbreviations -- Introduction / Besamusca, Bart / Bruijn, Elisabeth de / Willaert, Frank -- I. The History of Early Printing of Narrative Texts -- Durchbruch zur Prosa und der Einfluss des Buchdrucks auf die deutschsprachige Erzählliteratur des 15. Jahrhunderts / Bertelsmeier-Kierst, Christa -- Continuities and Discontinuities in the Production and Reception of Middle Dutch Narrative Literature / Besamusca, Bart / Willaert, Frank -- The Southern Appeal: Dutch Translations of French Romances (c. 1484-c. 1540) in a Western European Perspective / Bruijn, Elisabeth de -- The Printing of English Narratives in Wynkyn de Worde's Later Career / Boffey, Julia -- The Publication of English Medieval Romances after the Death of Wynkyn de Worde, 1536-1569 / Sánchez-Martí, Jordi -- Production éditoriale et diffusion des récits arthuriens en France (XVe-XVIe siècles) / Montorsi, Francesco -- L'édition imprimée des textes médiévaux en langue française au début du seizième siècle. Le cas de Galliot du Pré (1512-1560) / Delsaux, Olivier / Van Hemelryck, Tania -- II. Publication Strategies -- Visual Narrative: The Aeneid Woodcuts from Sebastian Brant's Edition of Virgil (Strasbourg 1502) in Thomas Murner's Translation of the Aeneid (Strasbourg 1515) / Frick, Julia -- Dasselbe nochmal: Narratives Potenzial von Bildwiederholungen in frühneuzeitlichen Romanen / Potysch, Nicolas -- Old-Fashioned in Order to be Modern: Seghelijn van Iherusalem and its Woodcuts / Schaeps, Jef -- Ritter, Romance, Rewriting. Überlegungen zur dänischen Erzählliteratur in der Frühdruckzeit am Beispiel der Historie von Persenober oc Constantianobis (1572) / Richter, Anna Katharina -- What's in a Name? On the Titles of Early Modern Narratives, in Particular Those of the Spanish libros de caballerías / Syrovy, Daniel -- List of Contributors -- Index of Manuscripts -- Index of Titles -- Index of Names
The essays in this volume are concerned with early printed narrative texts in Western Europe. The aim of this book is to consider to what extent the shift from hand-written to printed books left its mark on narrative literature in a number of vernacular languages. Did the advent of printing bring about changes in the corpus of narrative texts when compared with the corpus extant in manuscript copies? Did narrative texts that already existed in manuscript form undergo significant modifications when they began to be printed? How did this crucial media development affect the nature of these narratives? Which strategies did early printers develop to make their texts commercially attractive? Which social classes were the target audiences for their editions? Around half of the articles focus on developments in the history of early printed narrative texts, others discuss publication strategies. This book provides an impetus for cross-linguistic research. It invites scholars from various disciplines to get involved in an international conversation about fifteenth- and sixteenth-century narrative literature
