Nonlinear Partial Differential Equations : The Abel Symposium 2010
The topic of the 2010 Abel Symposium, hosted at the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters, Oslo, was Nonlinear Partial Differential Equations, the study of which is of fundamental importance in mathematics and in almost all of natural sciences, economics, and engineering. This area of mathematics is currently in the midst of an unprecedented development worldwide. Differential equations are used to model phenomena of increasing complexity, and in areas that have traditionally been outside the realm of mathematics. New analytical tools and numerical methods are dramatically improving our understanding of nonlinear models. Nonlinearity gives rise to novel effects reflected in the appearance of shock waves, turbulence, material defects, etc., and offers challenging mathematical problems. On the other hand, new mathematical developments provide new insight in many applications. These proceedings present a selection of the latest exciting results by world leading researchers.
L.Ambrosio: Convergence of Wigner transforms in a semiclassical limit -- A.Bressan: Contractive Metrics for Nonsmooth Evolutions -- L. Caffarelli: Non local diffusions, drifts and games -- G.-Q.Chen and Y.G.Wang: Characteristic Discontinuities and Free Boundary Problems for Hyperbolic Conservation Laws -- S.Conti, C.De Lellis, L.Székelyhidi Jr.: h-principle and rigidity for C1;a isometric embeddings.- J.Dolbeault, M.J.Esteban: About existence, symmetry and symmetry breaking for extremal functions of some interpolation functional inequalities -- E.Feireisl, M.E. Schonbek: On the Oberbeck–Boussinesq approximation on unbounded domains -- C.Kenig: Universal Profiles and Rigidity Theorems for the Energy Critical Wave Equation -- A.Kiselev, F.Nazarov: A simple energy pump for the surface quasi-geostrophic equation -- S.Klainerman: On the formation of trapped surfaces -- R.V.Kohn: Surface Relaxation Below the Roughening Temperature: Some Recent Progress and Open Questions -- A.J.Majda: Climate Science, Waves and PDEs for the Tropics -- I.Gallagher, T.Paul, L.Saint-Raymond: On the propagation of oceanic waves driven by a strong macroscopic flow -- E.Tadmor, C.Tan: Hierarchical construction of bounded solutions of divU = F in critical regularity spaces -- J.L.Vázquez: Nonlinear Diffusion with Fractional Laplacian Operators -- C.Villani: (Ir)reversibility and entropy . .
