Progress on Cryptography : 25 Years of Cryptography in China
Randomness and Discrepancy Transforms -- Legendre Sequences and Modified Jacobi Sequences -- Resilient Functions with Good Cryptographic Properties -- Differential Factoring for Integers -- Simple and Efficient Systematic a-Codes from Error Correcting Codes -- On Coefficients of Binary Expression of Integer Sums -- A New Publicly Verifiable Proxy Signcryption Scheme -- Some New Proxy Signature Schemes from Pairings -- Construction of Digital Signature Schemes Based on Discrete Logarithm Problem -- How to Construct DLP-Based Blind Signatures and Their Application in E-Cash Systems -- A Group of Threshold Group-Signature Schemes with Privilege Subsets -- A New Group Signature Scheme with Unlimited Group Size -- Identity Based Signature Scheme Based on Quadratic Residues -- A New Digital Signature Scheme Based on Factoring and Discrete Logarithms -- New Transitive Signature Scheme Based on Discreted Logarithm Problem -- Blind Signature Schemes Based on Gost Signature -- One-Off Blind Public Key -- Analysis on the Two Classes of Robust Threshold Key Escrow Schemes -- Privacy-Preserving Approximately Equation Solving Over Reals -- An Authenticated Key Agreement Protocol Resistant to DoS Attack -- A Comment on a Multi-Signature Scheme -- Cryptanalysis of LKK Proxy Signature -- Attack on Identity-Based Broadcasting Encryption Schemes -- Differential-Linear Cryptanalysis of Camellia -- Security Analysis of EV-DO System -- A Remedy of Zhu-Lee-Deng’s Public Key Cryptosystem -- Quantum Cryptographic Algorithm for Classical Binary Information -- Practical Quantum Key Distribution Network Based on Stratosphere Platform -- A Survey of P2P Network Security Issues Based on Protocol Stack -- DDoS Scouter: A Simple IP Traceback Scheme -- A Method of Digital Data Transformation-Base91 -- An Approach to the Formal Analysis of TMN Protocol.
Cryptography in Chinese consists of two characters meaning "secret coded". Thanks to Ch'in Chiu-Shao and his successors, the Chinese Remainder Theorem became a cornerstone of public key cryptography. Today, as we observe the constant usage of high-speed computers interconnected via the Internet, we realize that cryptography and its related applications have developed far beyond "secret coding". China, which is rapidly developing in all areas of technology, is also writing a new page of history in cryptography. As more and more Chinese become recognized as leading researchers in a variety of topics in cryptography, it is not surprising that many of them are Professor Xiao's former students. Progress on Cryptography: 25 Years of Cryptography in China is a compilation of papers presented at an international workshop in conjunction with the ChinaCrypt, 2004. After 20 years, the research interests of the group have extended to a variety of areas in cryptography. This edited volume includes 32 contributed chapters. The material will cover a range of topics, from mathematical results of cryptography to practical applications. This book also includes a sample of research, conducted by Professor Xiao's former and current students. Progress on Cryptography: 25 Years of Cryptography in China is designed for a professional audience, composed of researchers and practitioners in industry. This book is also suitable as a secondary text for graduate-level students in computer science, mathematics and engineering.
