Entrepreneurship, universities & resources : frontiers in European entrepreneurship research
The role of resources is pivotal in entrepreneurship for the success of new and small ventures, though most face resource constraints. The book offers multiple perspectives on analysing and understanding the importance of resources in entrepreneurship development. Approaching the subject with both a practice-theory and research-based approach, the contributors analyse topics such as processes and structures in social entrepreneuring; entrepreneurship and equity in crowdfunding; and forming alliances with large firms to overcome resource constraints. The contributors provide evidence, for example, on how business angels can contribute more than finance to small ventures and how the flexibility of resources is important in internationalisation. Students and scholars of entrepreneurship, business and management, and other related subjects will find this book to be of interest. It will also be of use to practitioners in the field looking for practical advice
1. Introduction: Focusing on the Role of Resources and Universities in Entrepreneurship / Ulla Hytti, Robert Blackburn, Denise Fletcher and Friederike Welter -- 2. Exploring Processes and Structures in Social Entrepreneuring: A Practice-Theory Approach / Bengt Johannisson, Jan Alpenberg and Pär Strandberg -- 3. Entrepreneurship and Equity Crowdfunding: A Research Agenda / Thanh Huynh -- 4. How Business Angels Found a Way to Contribute Non-financially: A Processual Approach / Olli-Matti Nevalainen and Päivi Eriksson -- 5. Resource Flexibility, Early Internationalization and Performance / R. Işıl Yavuz, Harry Sapienza and Youngeun Chu -- 6. Overcoming the 'Smallness Challenge' in Asymmetrical Alliances / Krister Salamonsen -- 7. Evolution of the Scientrepreneur? Role Identity Construction of Science-based Entrepreneurs in Finland and in Russia / Päivi Karhunen and Irina Olimpieva -- 8. The Intention-behavior Link of Higher Education Graduates / Elina Varamäki, Sanna Joensuu-Salo and Anmari Viljamaa -- 9. Made in Liverpool : Exploring the Contribution of a University-industry Research Partnership to Innovation and Entrepreneurship / Sam Horner and Benito Giordano.
