Business Process Management : Blockchain and Robotic Process Automation Forum$dBPM 2020 Blockchain and RPA Forum, Seville, Spain, September 13–18, 2020, Proceedings
Blockchain Forum -- Silver Bullet for all Trust Issues? Blockchain-based Trust Patterns for Collaborative Business Processes -- Blockchain Oracles: A Framework for Blockchain-Based Applications -- Foundational Oracle Patterns: Connecting Blockchain to the Off-chain World -- The Role of Modeling in Blockchain Process Design -- External Data Monitoring Using Oracles in Blockchain-Based Process Execution -- Robotic Process Automation Forum -- A Conversational Digital Assistant for Intelligent Process Automation -- Is Robotic Process Automation Becoming Intelligent? Early Evidence of Influences of Artificial Intelligence on Robotic Process Automation -- Automated Generation of Executable RPA Scripts from User Interface Logs -- Integrating Robotic Process Automation into Business Process Management -- How to Trust a Bot: An RPA User Perspective -- Towards a Taxonomy of Cognitive RPA Components -- Towards an OpenSource Logger for the Analysis of RPA Projects -- Beyond the Hype: RPA Horizon for Robot-Human interaction -- A Framework for Evaluating the Suitability of Process Activities for Robotic Process Automation -- From Robotic Process Automation to Intelligent Process Automation.
This book constitutes the proceedings of the Blockchain and Robotic Process Automation (RPA) Forum which was held as part of the 18th International Conference on Business Process Management, BPM 2020. The conference was planned to take place in Seville, Spain, in September 2020. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic the conference took place virtually. The Blockchain Forum and the RPA Forum have in common that they are centered around an emerging and exciting technology. The blockchain is a sophisticated distributed ledger technology, while RPA software allows for mimicking human, repetitive actions. Each of these have the potential to fundamentally change how business processes are being orchestrated and executed in practice. The BPM community has embraced these technologies as objects of analysis, design, development, and evaluation. The 14 full plus one short paper presented in this volume were carefully reviewed and selected from a total of 28 submissions. .
