Sustainability outreach in developing countries
This book presents a comprehensive collection of recent research on the timely topic of sustainable development goals, with a focus on developing countries. In this manner, it furnishes interdisciplinary coverage in terms of sustainable development; it sets forth the pillars of sustainability (environmental, technical and technological, social, institutional, and economic disciplines); and it explores the adaption of these pillars for long-term sustainability. With its survey of transboundary research, experiences, and lessons learned, the book offers integrated conceptual and empirical contributions from diverse interrelated fields. Viable options are set forth for societies in transition in the twenty-first century to achieve well-being in the lives of their people through the eradication of poverty, mitigation of climate change, promotion of lifelong learning opportunities, and empowerment of society. These options also make it possible to deploy affordable energy, sustain economic growth, offer innovation, reduce inequality, and finally, to help ensure global sustainability.
Chapter 1. Energy and Environment Efficiencies Towards Contributing to Global Sustainability -- Chapter 2. A Concise Overview of Energy Development within Sustainability Requirements -- Chapter 3. Aligning Smart City Indicators for Sustainability Outreach: A Case Study -- Chapter 4. Optimal Merging of Transportation System Using Renewable Energy-based Supply for Sustainable Development -- Chapter 5. Smart and Sustainable Township: An Overview -- Chapter 6. An Empirical Analysis of Sustainability Indicators in An Administrative Complex Design from Urban Planning Perspective -- Chapter 7. Distributed Generation Model for Achieving Environmental Scenario: Loss Reduction and Efficiency Improvement -- Chapter 8. Solar Energy Market and Policy Instrument Analysis to Support Sustainable Development -- Chapter 9. Sustaining the Public Transport Network by Adaptation from Monocentric to Polycentric Structure -- Chapter 10. Sustainable Transportation and Mobility System in Kabul City -- Chapter 11. From Consumers to Producers: Energy Efficiency as a Tool for Sustainable Development in the context of Informal Settlements -- Chapter 12. Efficient Use of Energy and Its Impacts on Residential Sector: A Step Towards Sustainable Building. .
