New approaches to ancient material culture in the Greek & Roman world : 21st-century methods and Classical antiquity
Networks, connectivity, and material culture / Anna Collar -- Big data and Greek archaeology: potential, hazards, and a case study from early Greece / Sarah Murray -- Biography of the Bull-Leaper: a 'Minoan' ivory figurine and collecting antiquity / Catherine L. Cooper (Kate Cooper) -- Labour organisation and energetics of early archaic architecture in Korinthos / Philip Sapirstein -- Collaborative investigations into the production of Athenian pottery / David Saunders, Karen Trentelman and Jeffrey Maish -- "Everything impossible": admiring glass in ancient Rome / Nicola Barham -- The Pylos Tablets Digital Project: prehistoric scripts in the 21st century / Dimitri Nakassis, Kevin Pluta and Julie Hruby -- Objects and things in Classical literature / Sarah Blake and Jennifer Dyer -- The soundscape of textile work in the Roman world: old sources & new methods / Magdalena Öhrman.
"New Approaches to Ancient Material Culture in the Greek & Roman World is about Classical archaeology at its broadest and is important reading to all Classicists. As part of a recent movement to highlight the rich diversity of the subject it overcomes traditional disciplinary boundaries to show the variety of current approaches to the study of Classical antiquity from the Late Bronze Age to the Late Antique period. The multi-disciplinary papers deal with archaeology and art history, museum objects and fieldwork data, ancient texts and material culture, archaeological theory and historiography, and technical and literary analysis. The international contributors discuss a selection of methodologies currently used to study ancient material, and illustrate their relevance through case studies which span the Greek and Roman world. Contributors are: Nicola Barham, Sarah H. Blake, Anna Collar, C. L. (Kate) Cooper, Jennifer Dyer, Julie Hruby, Jeff Maish, Sarah C. Murray, Dimitri Nakassis, Magdalena Öhrman, Kevin Pluta, Philip Sapirstein, David Saunders, Karen Trentelman"--
