Geometry at the Frontier : symmetries and moduli spaces of algebraic varieties : 2016-2018 workshops Geometry at the Frontier : November 2016, November 2017, November 2018 : Universidad de La Frontera, Pucón, Chile
Lower and upper bounds for some generalized arcs / Alexis E. Almendras Valdebenito and Andrea Luigi Tironi -- Symmetries of order eight on K3 surfaces without high genus curves in the fixed locus / Dima Al Tabbaa, Annalisa Grossi, and Alessandra Sarti -- A decomposition of the Jacobian of a Humbert-Edge curve / Robert Auffarth, Giancarlo Lucchini Arteche, and Anita M. Rojas -- Connections on central extensions, lifting gerbes, and finite-dimensional obstruction vanishing / Indranil Biswas and Markus Upmeier -- Some algebraic and geometric properties of hyper-Kähler fourfold symmetries / Samuel Boissière, Marc Nieper-Wisskirchen, and Kévin Tari -- On the existence of groups of automorphisms of compact Riemann and Klein surfaces / Emilio Bujalance and F.J. Cirre -- Hyperbolic structures for Artin-Tits groups of spherical type / Matthieu Calvez and Bert Wiest -- Linear stability for line bundles over curves / Abel Castorena, E.C. Mistretta, and H. Torres-López -- The contribution of W.L. Edge to the study of Humbert's curves / Juan B. Frías-Medina and Alexis G. Zamora -- Deformations of noncompact Calabi-Yau manifolds, families and diamonds / Elizabeth Gasparim and Francisco Rubilar -- A brute force computer aided proof of an existence result about extremal hyperbolic surfaces / Ernesto Girondo and Cristian Reyes -- Complex surfaces with mutually non-biholomorphic universal covers / Gabino González-Diez and Sebastián Reyes-Carocca -- Hodge theory and moduli / Phillip Griffiths -- Constructing Jacobian varieties with many elliptic curves / Rubén A. Hidalgo -- Weil's Galois descent theorem from a computational point of view / Rubén A. Hidalgo and Sebastián Reyes-Carocca -- Subcovers of curves and moduli spaces / Ernst Kani -- Algebraic geometry and convolutional codes / Angel Luis Muñoz Castañeda and José I. Iglesias-Curto -- Adelic and idelic pairings related to Weil reciprocity on algebraic curves / Luis Manuel Navas Vicente and Francisco J. Plaza Martín -- Remarks on the size of the Tamagawa product / Hector Pasten.
