Defense and the Environment: Effective Scientific Communication
International Conventions in Environment: For Better Mutual Co-operation -- Environmental Aspects of Managing of Natural Resource Assets within the Military Sector -- Environmental Policy of the Czech Ministry of Defence -- Environmental Policy in the Estonian Defence Forces -- NATO Environmental Doctrine from Hungarian Point of View -- Stanag 7141 EP — Plan of Implementation in Poland -- Public Participation in Decisions Relating to the Environmental Management of Ministry of Defence Sites -- Environmental Policy in the Slovak Armed Forces, Environmental Management System as a Challenge for the Future -- Environmental Management Systems (EMS) in the Military Sector -- A Corporate EMS for the UK Ministry of Defence -- Reccomendations based on the NATO-CCMS Pilot Study on Methodology, Focalization, Evaluation and Scope of Environmental Impact Assessment -- Environmental Management Systems, Reliability Management, and Vulnerability Assessments: Potential within Contemporary Security Settings -- Non-ionizing Electromagnetic Radiation and Environmental Security -- Consequences of the Chernobyl Catastrophe as a Prototype of Nuclear Terrorism -- Environmental Security: A Case of Slovenia -- Military Conversion/Restructuring and Sustainable Development Strategy -- Index of Environmental Acceptability of Military Training -- Method for the Military Facilities Risk Assessment -- Risk Assessment of Large Capacity Petrol Storehouse -- The Roving Windows Methodology for Risk Management and Remedy Optimization, An Approach for Addressing Chemical Contamination across Large Areas of Soil -- Environmental Technologies Research and Deployments at Los Alamos National Laboratory -- The Superfund Basic Research Program: A Model for Interdisciplinary Research to Reduce Risk and Prevent Exposure -- Protection of Rare Species and Habitats in the Armed Forces of Lithuania -- Slovak Military Veterinary Services Protect and Exploit Rare Species for 11 Years -- Protection of Natural Habitats within the Military Land, Experiences from U.S. Army, Europe -- The Problem of the Environment and Nature Conservation in Romania.
The NATO Advanced Research Workshop, “Effective Scientific Communication Related to Recent Challenges and Activities in the Military Sector,” was the result of close collaboration between defense and environmental officials in the United States and the Slovak Republic. It was recognized that effective solutions to environmental problems are achieved through the proper application of science, including the communications and the social sciences. Workshop was co-directed by Messrs. Ronald A. Kreizenbeck of US EPA and Lubomir Kušnír of Slovak Ministry of Defense. Workshop topics were grouped into five major topic areas including 1) Environmental Policy Perspectives, 2) Environmental Management Systems and Public Participation, 3) Environmental Security, 4) Environmental Decision Support, and 5) Protection of Nature and Natural Systems. Delegates from nineteen countries assembled to explore these topics at the Hotel Danube in Bratislava from April 22-26, 2003. A total of forty six delegates were in attendance, twenty from NATO countries and twenty six from Partners for Peace countries. The final program included technical sessions using a presentation and dialog format, work groups, field trips, and networking sessions. There were twenty nine technical presentations divided into seven sessions, and these form the basis for these proceedings. xiii Acknowledgments The organizers of this Advanced Research Workshop acknowledge the support of two major financial sponsors, the NATO Science Programme and the U. S. Department of Defense (USDOD) under the Partners for Peace Program (PfP).
