75 years of Mathematics of computation : symposium on Celebrating 75 Years of Mathematics of Computation, November 1-3, 2018, the Institute for Computational and Experimental Research in Mathematics (ICERM), Providence, Rhode Island
Adaptive low-rank approximations for operator equations : accuracy control and computational complexity / Markus Bachmayr and Wolfgang Dahmen -- The Prager-Synge theorem in reconstruction based a posteriori error estimation / Fleurianne Bertrand and Daniele Boffi -- Linear and nonlinear fractional elliptic problems / Juan Pablo Borthagaray, Wenbo Li, and Ricardo H. Nochetto -- Lattice algorithms for multivariate approximation in periodic spaces with general weight parameters / Ronald Cools, Frances Y. Kuo, Dirk Nuyens, and Ian H. Sloan -- Multivariate modeling, homogenization and nonlocal effects : mathematical and computational issues / Qiang Du, Bjorn Engquist, and Xiaochuan Tian -- The Stokes complex : a review of exactly divergence-free finite element pairs for incompressible flows / Michael Neilan -- Finite element methods for Maxwell's equations / Peter Monk and Yangwen Zhang -- Partial differential equation regularization for supervised machine learning / Adam M. Oberman -- Iterative methods for linear systems of equations : a brief historical journey / Yousef Saad -- The IEQ and SAV approaches and their extensions for a class of highly nonlinear gradient flow systems / Jie Shen and Xiaofeng Yang -- A class of bound-preserving high order schemes : the main ideas and recent developments / Chi-Wang Shu -- BDDC domain decomposition algorithms / Olof B. Widlund -- Computing modular polynomials and isogenies of rank two Drinfeld modules over finite fields / P. Caranay, M. Greenberg, and R. Scheidler -- A new ranking function for polynomial selection in the number field sieve / Nicolas David and Paul Zimmermann -- A nilpotent quotient algorithm for finitely presented associative Z-algebras and its application to integral group rings / Bettina Eick and Tobias Moede -- A tale of two omegas / Michael J. Mossinghoff and Timothy S. Trudgian.
