Information and communication technologies for agriculture ; Theme 3: Decision
This volume is the third (III) of four under the main themes of Digitizing Agriculture and Information and Communication Technologies (ICT). The four volumes cover rapidly developing processes including Sensors (I), Data (II), Decision (III), and Actions (IV). Volumes are related to ‘digital transformation” within agricultural production and provision systems, and in the context of Smart Farming Technology and Knowledge-based Agriculture. Content spans broadly from data mining and visualization to big data analytics and decision making, alongside with the sustainability aspects stemming from the digital transformation of farming. The four volumes comprise the outcome of the 12th EFITA Congress, also incorporating chapters that originated from select presentations of the Congress. The focus of this book (III) is on the transformation of collected information into valuable decisions and aims to shed light on how best to use digital technologies to reduce cost, inputs, and time, toward becoming more efficient and transparent. Fourteen chapters are grouped into 3 Sections. The first section of is dedicated to decisions in the value chain of agricultural products. The next section, titled Primary Production, elaborates on decision making for the improvement of processes taking place with the farm under the implementation of ICT. The last section is devoted to the development of innovative decision applications that also consider the protection of the environment, recognizing its importance in the preservation and considerate use of resources, as well as the mitigation of adverse impacts that are related to agricultural production. Planning and modeling the assessment of agricultural practices can provide farmers with valuable information prior to the execution of any task. This book provides a valuable reference for them as well as for those directly involved with decision making in planning and assessment of agricultural production. Specific advances covered in the volume: Modelling and Simulation of ICT-based agricultural systems Farm Management Information Systems (FMIS) Planning for unmanned aerial systems Agri-robotics awareness and planning Smart livestock farming Sustainable strategic planning in agri-production Food business information systems.
Section I: Value Chain -- Agricultural Information Model (Palma) -- Development of a framework for implementing IOT-A on the beef cattle value chain (Mostaço) -- Food business information systems and software in Western Greece (Mitsos) -- Section II: Primary production -- From precision agriculture to agriculture 4.0: Integrating ICT in farming (Benos) -- On the routing of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) in precision farming sampling missions (Bochtis) -- 3D scenery construction of agricultural environments for robotics awareness (Tagarakis) -- A Weed Control Unmanned Ground Vehicle Prototype for Precision Farming Activities: The Case of Red Rice (Bechtsis) -- Decision making and Decision Support System for a successful weed management (Kanatas) -- Zephyrus: Grain aeration strategy based on the prediction of temperature and moisture fronts (Lopes) -- Decision-Making Applications on Smart Livestock Farming (A. Nääs) -- Section III: Environment -- Programmable Process Structures of unified elements for model-based planning and operation of complex agri-environmental processes (Varga) -- Monitoring and estimation of sugarcane burning in Brazil, using linear mixed models (S. Galvanin) -- A Decision Support System for Green Crop Fertilization Planning (Rodias) -- Knowledge elicitation and modeling of agroecological management strategies (Martin-Clouaire).
