Gender in transition in Eastern and Central Europe : proceedings
Ten years after the demise of socialism, eastern and western European scholars met to investigate the transformation processes in Eastern, Central and South Eastern Europe with regard to gender relations. The participants of the conference on,, Gender in Transition in Central and Eastern Europe" addressed a variety of issues such as the relationship between Western theory and Eastern practice, the contributions of women in the transformed and still transforming societies to international feminist thought, and the discursive production of femininities and identities in the context of both global and local politics. They looked into the hierarchies of gender on the job market and discussed the political participation of woman along with the institutionalisation of Women's and Gender Studies within the academia. The joint efforts in analysis and discussion resulted in an exciting discourse that bridges the gap between the scholarly communities across the world. The conference proceedings offer valuable insights into the shared features as well as differences of gender relations in transformation processes. Contents: THEORETICAL APPROACHES (Sauer, Birgit: "Normalized masculinities": Constructing gender in theories of political transition and democratic consolidation. - Watson, Peggy: Gender and politics in postcommunism. - Smejkalova, Jirina: Gender as an analytical category of post-communist studies. - Dölling, Irene: Ten years after: Gender relations in a changed world - new challenges for women's and gender studies. - Nickel, Hildegard M.: ZiF - the Centre for Interdisciplinary Women's Studies. A paradigm for the institutionalisation of women's and gender studies. - Kulke, Christine: Impacts of globalization on gender politics and gender arrangements. - Regulska, Joanna: Gendered integration of Europe: New boundaries of exclusion. - Einhorn, Barbara: Gender and citizenship in the context of democratisation and economic transformation in East Central Europe.) FEMINIST THEORY AND THE PUBLIC- PRIVATE- DEBATE (Oates-Indruchova, Libora: Discourses of gender in the post-1989 Czech Republic: A textual perspective. - Kiczkova, Zuzana: Why do we need feminist theories or one more time about publicity and privacy. - Ritter, Martina: Russia - a patriarchal mama-society. The dynamics of the private and the public in Soviet and post-soviet Russia. - Zherebkina, Irina: "Who is afraid of feminism" in Ukraine? How feminism is possible as a post-so ...
