History of rocketry and astronautics : proceedings of the thirty-third symposium of the International Academy of Astronautics, Amsterdam, The Netherlands, 1999 ; IAA history symposia, vol. 19
pt. I. Memoirs of aerospace pioneers. Dr. Irene Sanger-Bredt : a life for astronautics ; John Leland Atwood : biographical memoir -- pt. II. Pre-World War II to World War II. Liquid propellant engines in the Soviet Union ; the true beginnings of French astronautics 19381959 (part I) ; Evolution of asphalt rocket propellants from World War II JPL/aerojet research to postwar spin-offs by the Rocket Research Institute ; The Shusui Japanese rocket fighter in World War II -- pt. III. Post-World War II to the 1950s. The east parking lot rocket experiments of North American Aviation, Inc., 1946-1949 ; History of French sounding rockets part I : Véronique and Vesta - their development and operation ; The Netherlands in space : how it all began ; Flight termination of the first large solid propellant rockets ; Black Prince ; The question of the artificial satellite in the mid-1950s : French scientists and their approach -- pt. IV. The space age. History of commercial satellite services industry ; "RD & PE Zvezda" JSC : a history of the creation of the Russian spacesuits, escape and life support means for space vehicle and Space Station crews ; The effect of gravity-propelled interplanetary space travel on the exploration of the Solar System : historical survey, 1961to 2000 ; The first French experiences of space biology during parabolic flights ; A little-known project of a super-heavy space rocket ; Scientific experiences using Argentinean sounding rockets in Antarctica ; Recovering rockets from the desert : exercises in retrieving Australia's space heritage from the Simpson Desert -- pt. V. Space age perspectives. On the connectivity between the French and Hamiltonian approaches to celestial mechanics ; Apollo thirtieth anniversary : two views - part 1 ; Apollo thirtieth anniversary : two views - part 2
