Modernising municipal infrastructure in Central and Eastern Europe in the context of EU environmental policy : 23. Leipziger Weltwirtschaftsseminar
Cities in Europe are increasingly challenged by their responsibilities to provide public services and infrastructure. Many of them face the necessity for the modernisation and restructuring of their public infrastructural facilities, e.g. the local public transport infrastructure, utilities, waste disposal and others. For the New EU Member States also the European Union legislation implementing high quality standards is an important driver in modernising municipal infrastructure. But while the need for renewal and maintenance is growing, the conventional basis for financing public infrastructural facilities – taxes and fees – is often shrinking. As a result, many municipalities modernising their infrastructure have to deal not only with technological issues and challenges but also with the question of how to finance it. In this situation it is important to look for alternative financial and organisational models. Possible solutions may include cooperation models between an group of communities and/or between communities and private partners. Also selling off its municipal operating companies can offer a regional administrative body the opportunity of reducing budgetary deficits. Administrative officials often will need continuing learning to make the right decision for their particular case. To rely on the experience of other municipalities may help to overcome existing reluctance to strike a new path and it also may impede precarious decisions. Reflecting this situation, the Leipzig University's Zentrum für Internationale Wirtschaftsbeziehungen and the Fraunhofer Zentrum Mittel- und Osteuropa decided to organise a seminar on “Modernising Municipal Infrastructure in Central and Eastern Europe” to bring together experts in municipal finance, public service managers and respective administrators, technological experts and providers of the necessary technologies and know-how with the objective to share the latest state of the art, to discuss experiences, and to promote best practices and solutions for modernising municipal infrastructure in Central and Eastern Europe. From the wide range of municipal services two were chosen: water and wastewater and waste disposal. However, for the most part the financial and organisational models will be applicable to other public services, too, so that communes and suppliers can make good use of the outcomes.
