Frontiers in the Roman world : proceedings of the Ninth Workshop of the International Network Impact of Empire (Durham, 16 - 19 April 2009)
Fines provinciae / John Richardson -- The limits of empire in the res gestae of Ammianus Marcellinus / Jan Willem Drijvers -- Penser la limite: de la cite au territoire imperial / Stephane Benoist -- Drawing the line: an archaeological methodology for detecting Roman provincial borders / K. da Costa -- On the fringe: trade and taxation in the Egyptian eastern desert / D. Nappo and A. Zerbini -- Contextualizing Hadrian's wall: the wall as 'debatable lands' / Richard Hingley and Rich Hartis -- Recherche sur les frontieres de l'afrique romaine: espaces mobiles et representations / A.  Hilali -- Rom jenseits der grenze: klientelkonigreiche und der impact of empire / Gunther Schorner -- The frontiers of Graeco-Roman religions: Greeks and non-Greeks from a religious point of view / Elena Muniz Grijalvo -- Arx aeternae dominationis: emperor worship rituals in the construction of a Roman religious frontier / F. Lozano -- Religious frontiers in the Syrian-Mesopotamian desert / Lucinda Dirven -- A fine line? Catholics and Donatists in Roman North Africa / Alexander Evers -- Zwischen italien und den 'barbaren': das werden neuer politischer und administrativer grenzen in caesarisch-augusteischer zeit / Karl Strobel -- The new frontiers of late antiquity in the near east. From Diocletian to Justinian / Ariel S. Lewin -- Reducing senatorial control over provincial commanders: a forgotten gabinian law of 67bce / F.J. Vervaet -- The 'ultimate frontier': war, terror and the Greek poleis between Mithridates and Rome / T. Naco del Hoyo, B. Antela-Bernardez, I. Arrayas-Morales and S. Busquets-Artigas -- Les bataves au centre et a la peripherie de l'empire: quelques hypotheses sur les origines de la revolte de 69-70 / P. Cosme -- The practice of hospitium on the Roman frontier / J. Nicols -- Resident aliens and translocal merchant collegia in the Roman Empire / K. Verboven -- The impact of women's travels on military imagery in the Julio-Claudian period -- L. Foubert
