Water and society
Exclusion zone as intermediate between ice and water / E. So, R. Stahlberg, G. H. Pollack -- Water and biological time keeping / D. J. Morré, D. M. Morré -- Gish Abay: the source of the Blue Nile / T. Oestigaard, A. F. Gedef -- The numinosity of water / E. Tyree -- Green jobs, social dialogue and participatory governance for sustainable water policy reforms / C. R. Carrión-Crespo -- Determinants of individual willingness to pay for quality water supply: the case of Wonji Shoa Sugar Estate, Ethiopia / S. Wondimu, W. Bekele -- Recurrent flood: effects of recent climatic variations on the city of Lagos and its environs / M. K. Ladipo, O. E. Popoola, V. F. Doherty, I. M. Phillips -- The impact of land use change on runoff and peak flood discharges for the Nyando River in Lake Victoria drainage basin, Kenya / P. M. Kundu, L. O. Olang -- Outlook of future discharge at the dam watershed considering climate change / D. K. Koh, J.-H. Park -- Exploring links between policy preferences for water reallocation and beliefs, values, attitudes, and social norms in Alberta, Canada / M. Russenberger, H. Bjornlund, W. Xu -- A step towards water conservation in the state of Kuwait / M. Al-Senafy, A. Al-Khalid -- Preliminary analysis of the cost effectiveness of rainwater tanks rebate scheme in Greater Melbourne, Australia / S. Gato-Trinidad, K. Gan -- Impact of water degradation on ecosystem change and adaptation strategy for sustainable development / T. Nakayama -- Sustainable water management: a case study at the Jacksonville Zoo / M. Fagan, C. Brown, B. Chabot -- Greywater reuse in Saudi Arabia: current situation and future potential / A. O. Al-Jasser -- Understanding the acceptance of market-based instruments for the ecosystem service of water quality / G. L. Kerr, H. Bjornlund -- Toxic waste dumping, water contamination, and people's disablement in semi-arid rural México: local water pond issues for the fair siting of a landfill / F. J. Rangel -- Baseline investigation of Saudi seashore water concentrations along the Gulf of Aqaba / M. E. Elgohary, S. M. Alaseri -- The transfer and accumulation of trace metals from the Wonderfonteinspruit into the surrounding environment / D. Hamman, L. Van Rensburg -- Waste management development to protect water resources in the Niger Delta Region / J. I. Ogolo --
