Wisconsin government and business and the history of heterodox economic thought
Papers from a conference on the history of heterodox economics in the 20th century : introduction / Warren J. Samuels -- Heterodox economics at the University of Manitoba / Fletcher Baragar -- Repression at the University of Michigan / Edward H. Shaffer -- The Spartan school of institutional economics at Michigan State University / A. Allan Schmid -- The Oklahoma "institutionalist" school / W. Robert Brazelton -- Economic heterodoxy at the University of Texas at mid-twentieth century / David Hamilton -- Heterodox economics at the University of Utah / E.K. Hunt, Allen M. Sievers -- The twentieth century trend of institutionalism in mainstream economics journals / Ronnie J. Phillips, Douglas Kinnear -- Government and  business at the University of Wisconsin in the mid-1950s : introduction / Warren J. Samuels -- Lament for economics, or how Barbara Wootton gave it all away and became a sociologist / J.E. King -- Marxist theory : from class struggle to political economy / Clark Everling -- Edwin Emil Witte's course, On the role of government in the economy, Economics 246, 1954-1955 / Warren J. Samuels -- The urban land economics tradition : how heterodox economic theory survives in the real estate appraisal profession / Ranney Ramsey -- Edwin Emil Witte's course On government and business, Economics 146, fall 1954 / Warren J. Samuel's -- Robert Lampman's course On government and business, Economics 146, fall 1955 / Warren J. Samuels. - Contains two groups of archival materials. One group includes lecture notes from courses given at the University of Wisconsin by Edwin E. Witte and Robert Lampman on the economic role of government. The second group includes papers from a conference on the history of 20th century heterodox economics
Contains two groups of archival materials. One group includes lecture notes from courses given at the University of Wisconsin by Edwin E. Witte and Robert Lampman on the economic role of government. The second group includes papers from a conference on the history of 20th century heterodox economics
