Sustainable development and planning V : [contributions presented at the 5th International Conference on Sustainable Development and Planning, held at the Wessex Institute of Technology campus in the New Forest, UK]
Maritime and coastal spatial planning: the case of Greece and the Mediterranean / E. Beriatos, M. Papageorgiou -- Limits and possibilities for the promotion of sustainable development: the case of Northwest Region / Fluminense D. C. Vivas Neto, E. A. Nascimento -- Abu Dhabi efforts in facing global warming challenges through urban planning / M. Alameri, G. Wagle -- Primary sector waste indicators for regional planning / E. Cifrian, L. Pérez, E. Dosal, J. Viguri, A. Andrés -- Promoting sustainable development in the minerals industry: the phosphate project in Saudi Arabia / M. Aldagheiri -- Towards a sustainable system: application of temporal analysis on flood risk management / Z. Alsaqqaf, H. Zhang -- The small world of stakeholder groups: cascading concepts for urban change / M. Ganis, J. Minnery, D. Mateo-Babiano -- The strength of the urban form / I. Giovagnorio -- Future projects on water resources for a sustainable urban development: a case study of Surat city of India / K. A. Chauhan, J. P. Shah, A. M. Pingle, A. K. Chauhan -- Conceptual spatio-temporal data modelling and land use change / L. A. Beser de Deus, L. F. C. F. Silva, M. A. V. Freitas -- Real estate crisis and sustainability in Spain / J. L. Miralles i Garcia -- Urban sprawl: can it be sustainable? An analysis on energy performances of different urban forms / C. Diamantini, D. Vettorato -- Sustainable aspects of traditional Ottoman neighbourhoods in modern Turkish urban settlements / G. Koca, R. Karasozen -- From scoring to orienting: the development of a compass for evaluating sustainable urban development at the neighbourhood scale / H. Vandevyvere -- Whole-building design for a green school building in Al-Ain, United Arab Emirates / S. K. Elmasry, M. A. Haggag -- Eco-industrial parks: technologies and procedures for low environmental impacts / A. Boeri, D. Longo -- Overview of current energy policy and standards in the building sector in Iran / M. Riazi, S. M. Hosseyni -- Integrating passive cooling techniques for sustainable building performance in hot climates with reference to the UAE / M. A. Haggag, S. K. Elmasry -- Visualization of the thermal environments of RC and composite-wall constructions / H.-Y. Liu -- Lowering the sink temperature for a desert solar air conditioning system / M. A. Serag-Eldin -- Innovative approaches to urban water management in developing countries / S. Beecham, R. Fallahzadeh -- A study of the impacts of existing artificial optical radiation at student housing sites / P. Hebert
