History of rocketry and astronautics : proceedings of the Forty-Second History Symposium of the International Academy of Astronautics, Glasgow, United Kingdom, 2008 ; IAA history symposia, volume 28
INTERNATIONAL GEOPHYSICAL YEAR: 50TH ANNIVERSARY AND ORGANIZATIONAL HISTORY -- An unintended consequence of the IGY: Eisenhower, Sputnik, and the founding of NASA / Roger D. Launius -- The International Geophysical Year: The French participation, its influence on the beginning of the National Space Program / Hervé Moulin -- NASA's Office of Advanced Research and Technology and the emergence of the Space Station / John C. Mankins -- Managing the unmanageable: Apollo, space age management, and American social problems / Roger D. Launius -- MEMOIRS -- James H. Wyld (1912-1953): American rocket pioneer and the development of the Wyld Regeneratively Cooled Rocket Motor / Frank H. Winter -- Robert L. Forward: A Scotland connection to tethers, antimatter, and propulsion / Anne M. Coleman -- Casimir Coquilhat's theory on rocket motion: The rocket equation established in 1871! / Jean-Jacques Serra, Philippe Jung, and Théo Pirard -- Ricardo Dyrgalla (1910-1970), pioneer of rocket development in Argentina / Pablo de León -- Luigi Broglio: The first Italian space dreamer / Daniela Cipollone -- Phase role of missile defense means in the Cold War history / Irina Fedorenko -- SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNICAL REVIEWS -- The Alfred Nobel Rocket Camera: An early aerial photography attempt / Å. Ingemar Skoog -- The Soviet Meteo Rockets history, 1946-1991 / Christian Lardier -- The Argus Experiment / Charles A. Lundquist -- Space autonomous navigation system of Soviet project for manned flyby of Moon / Timur M. Eneev, Vyacheslav V. Ivashkin, Victor A. Sharov, and Jury V. Bagdasaryan -- Wresat: Australia's first satellite / Kerrie Dougherty -- The propulsion system for the "Ludion" One-Man Hopper: An Anglo-French rocket engine cooperation 40 years ago / Christophe Rothmund -- HISTORY OF UK CONTRIBUTIONS TO ASTRONAUTICS -- A review of UK space activity and historiography, 1957-2007 / Douglas Millard -- History of UK contribution to astronautics: Politics and government / Colin Hicks -- Some beginnings of space activity in UK industry / John Allen -- History of UK contribution to astronautics--Stevenage, A case study / Alistair D. Scott
"This volume contributed another high-quality edition to the series of Proceedings, in that it reports a wide range of disciplines that contribute to astronautics. Of particular merit in this issue are chapters that report the politics and context of initiatives undertaken in the early years of the U.S. space program and the background behind the difficult birth of the British National Space Centre. The 2008 International Astronautical Congress, held in Glasgow, Scotland, came at a key time, in that it undoubtedly assisted in the reawakening and broadening of support by the British government to the wider UK space industry. One session was dedicated to the past heritage of the United Kingdom in space and astronautics, and how this has evolved into the current position. It is one objective of the International Astronautical Federation in bringing congresses to particular countries, that it energizes the host country to look seriously at the level of support given to space. By including such dedicated sessions with the specific focus on the history of the host country's space-related activities and initiatives, the International Academy of Astronautics significantly contributes to this objective. It has been a privilege to have been part of the process that contributed to the reported histories of mankind's attempts to reach for the stars." --
