Survey measurement and process quality
Introduction: Measurement Error in Surveys: A Historical Perspective / Colm O'Muircheartaigh -- 1. Questionnaire Design: The Rocky Road from Concepts to Answers / Norbert Schwarz -- 2. From Theoretical Concept to Survey Question / Joop J. Hox -- 3. Why Are There so Few Formal Measuring Instruments in Social and Political Research? / Anthony Heath and Jean Martin -- 4. Social Cognition and Responses to Survey Questions Among Culturally Diverse Populations / Timothy Johnson, Diane O'Rourke and Noel Chavez [and others] -- 5. Reducing Question Order Effects: The Operation of Buffer Items / Michaela Wanke and Norbert Schwarz -- 6. Designing Rating Scales for Effective Measurement in Surveys / Jon A. Krosnick and Leandre R. Fabrigar -- 7. Towards a Theory of Self-Administered Questionnaire Design / Cleo R. Jenkins and Don A. Dillman -- 8. Data Collection Methods and Survey Quality: An Overview / Edith de Leeuw and Martin Collins -- 9. The Effect of New Data Collection Technologies on Survey Data Quality / William L. Nicholls II, Reginald P. Baker and Jean Martin -- 10. Developing a Speech Recognition Application for Survey Research / Bill Blyth -- 11. Evaluating Interviewer Use of CAPI Technology / Mick P. Couper, Sue Ellen Hansen and Sally A. Sadosky -- 12. The Effect of Interviewer and Respondent Behavior on Data Quality: Analysis of Interaction Coding in a Validation Study / Jennifer Dykema, James M. Lepkowski and Steven Blixt -- 13. Effects of Interview Mode on Sensitive Questions in a Fertility Survey / Jared B. Jobe, William F. Pratt and Roger Tourangeau [and others] -- 14. Children as Respondents: Methods for Improving Data Quality / Jaqueline Scott -- 15. Some Aspects of Post-Survey Processing / Lars Lyberg and Daniel Kasprzyk -- 16. Integrated Control Systems for Survey Processing / Jelke Bethlehem -- 17. Using Expert Systems to Model and Improve Survey Classification Processes / Frederick Conrad
18. Editing a Survey Data: How Much Is Enough? / Leopold Granquist and John G. Kovar -- 19. The Quality of Occupational Coding in the United Kingdom / Pamela Campanelli, Katarina Thomson and Nick Moon [and others] -- 20. Survey Measurement and Process Improvement: Concepts and Integration / Cathryn S. Dippo -- 21. Continuous Quality Improvement in Statistical Agencies / David Morganstein and David A. Marker -- 22. Quality Policies, Standards, Guidelines, and Recommended Practices at National Statistical Agencies / Michael Colledge and Mary March -- 23. Improving the Comparability of Estimates Across Business Surveys / Bill Gross and Susan Linacre -- 24. Evaluating Survey Data: Making the Transition from Pretesting to Quality Assessment / James L. Esposito and Jennifer M. Rothgeb -- 25. CATI Site Management in a Survey of Service Quality / Mary Batcher and Fritz Scheuren -- 26. Using Statistical Methods Applicable to Autocorrelated Processes to Analyze Survey Process Quality Data / Piyasena Hapuarachchi, Mary March and Adam Wronski -- 27. A Review of Measurement Error Effects on the Analysis of Survey Data / Paul P. Biemer and Dennis Trewin -- 28. Categorical Data Analysis and Misclassification / Jouni Kuha and Chris Skinner -- 29. Separating Change and Measurement Error in Panel Surveys with an Application to Labor Market Data / Frank van de Pol and Rolf Langeheine -- 30. Estimating Usual Dietary Intake Distributions: Adjusting for Measurement Error and Nonnormality in 24-Hour Food Intake Data / Sarah M. Nusser, Wayne A. Fuller and Patricia M. Guenther -- 31. Identifying and Adjusting for Recall Error with Application to Fertility Surveys / Thomas W. Pullum and S. Lynne Stokes -- 32. Estimators of Nonsampling Errors in Interview-Reinterview Supervised Surveys with Interpenetrated Assignments / Francesca Bassi and Luigi Fabbris -- 33. Variance Estimation Under Stratified Two-Phase Sampling with Applications to Measurement Bias / J.N.K. Rao and R.R. Sitter
