Proceedings of the Conference on 60 Years of Yang-Mills Gauge Field Theories : C.N. Yang's contributions to physics : Nanyang Technological University, Singapore, 25-28 May 2015
The future of physics -- revisited / C.N. Yang -- Quantum chromodynamics - the perfect Yang-Mills gauge field theories / David Gross -- Maximally supersymmetric Yang-Mills theory - the story of N=4 Yang-Mills theory / Lars Brink -- The lattice and quantized Yang-Mills theory / Michael Creutz -- Yang-Mills theories at high energy accelerators / George Sterman -- Yang-Mills theory at 60: milestones, landmarks, and interesting questions / Ling-Lie Chau -- Discovery of the first Yang-Mills gauge particle - the gluon / Sau Lan Wu -- Yang-Mills gauge theory and Higgs particle / T.T. Wu & S.L. Wu -- Senario for the renormalization in the 4D Yang-Mills theory / Ludwig Faddeev -- Statistical physics in the oeuvre of Chen Ning Yang / Michael E. Fisher -- Quantum vorticity in nature / Kerson Huang -- Yang-Mills theory and fermionic path integrals / Kazuo Fujikawa -- Yang-Mills gauge theory and the Higgs boson family / Ngee-pong Chang -- On the physics of the minimal length: the questions of gauge invariance / Lay Nam Chang -- Generalization of the Yang-Mills theory / George Savvidy -- Some thoughts about Yang-Mills theory / Anthony Zee -- Gauging quantum groups: Yang-Baxter joining Yang-Mills / Yong Shi Wu -- The framed standard model (I) - a physics case for framing the Yang-Mills theory / Hong Mo Chan -- The framed standard model (II) - a first test against experiment / Sheung Tsun Tsou -- On the study of the Higgs properties at a muon collider / Mario Greco -- Aharonov-Bohm types of phases in Maxwell and Yang-Mills field theories / Bruce McKellar -- Yang-Mills for historians and philosophers / Robert Crease -- Gauge concepts in theoretical applied physics / Seng Ghee Tan & M.B.A. Jalil -- Yang-Yang equilibrium statistical mechanics: a brilliant method / Xi-Wen Guan & Yang-Yang Chen -- Chern-Simons theory, Vassiliev invariants, loop quantum gravity and functional integration without integration / Louis Kauffman -- The scattering equations and their off-shell extension / Edward Yao York Peng -- Feynman geometries / Hu Sen & Andrey Losev -- Particle accelerator development: selected examples / Jie Wei -- A new storage-ring light source / Alexander Chao -- New contributions to physics by Prof. Yang: 2009-2011 / Zhong Qi Ma -- "Brief overview of C.N. Yang's 13 important contributions to physics" / Yu Shi
"During the last six decades, Yang-Mills theory has increasingly become the cornerstone of theoretical physics. It is seemingly the only fully consistent relativistic quantum many-body theory in four space-time dimensions. As such it is the underlying theoretical framework for the Standard Model of Particle Physics, which has been shown to be the correct theory at the energies we now can measure. It has been investigated also from many other perspectives, and many new and unexpected features have been uncovered from this theory. In recent decades, apart from high energy physics, the theory has been actively applied in other branches of physics, such as statistical physics, condensed matter physics, nonlinear systems, etc. This makes the theory an indispensable topic for all who are involved in physics. The conference celebrated the exceptional achievements using Yang-Mills theory over the years but also many other truly remarkable contributions to different branches of physics from Prof C N Yang. This volume collects the invaluable talks by Prof C N Yang and the invited speakers reviewing these remarkable contributions and their importance for the future of physics"--
