Restructured electric power systems : analysis of electricity markets with equilibrium models
Also featured are computational resources to allow readers to develop algorithms on their own, as well as future research directions in modeling and computational techniques in electricity market analysis. Restructured Electric Power Systems is an invaluable reference for electrical engineers and power system economists from power utilities and for professors, postgraduate students, and undergraduate students in electrical power engineering, as well as those responsible for the design, engineering, research, and development of competitive electricity markets and electricity market policy. --Book Jacket
Frontmatter -- Fundamentals of Electric Power Systems / Xiao-Ping Zhang -- Restructured Electric Power Systems and Electricity Markets / Kwok W Cheung, Gary W Rosenwald, Xing Wang, David I Sun -- Overview of Electricity Market Equilibrium Problems and Market Power Analysis / Xiao-Ping Zhang -- Computing the Electricity Market Equilibrium: Uses of Market Equilibrium Models / Ross Baldick -- Hybrid Bertrand-Cournot Models of Electricity Markets with Multiple Strategic Subnetworks and Common Knowledge Constraints / Jian Yao, Shmuel S Oren, Benjamin F Hobbs -- Electricity Market Equilibrium with Reactive Power Control / Xiao-Ping Zhang -- Using Market Simulations for Economic Assessment of Transmission Upgrades: Application of the California ISO Approach / Mohamed Labib Awad, Keith E Casey, Anna S Geevarghese, Jeffrey C Miller, A Farrokh Rahimi, Anjali Y Sheffrin, Mingxia Zhang, Eric Toolson, Glenn Drayton, Benjamin F Hobbs, Frank A Wolak -- Index -- Books in the IEEE Press Series on Power Engineering
Electricity market deregulation is driving the power energy production from a monopolistic structure into a competitive market environment. The development of electricity markets has necessitated the need to analyze market behavior and power. Restructured Electric Power Systems reviews the latest developments in electricity market equilibrium models and discusses the application of such models in the practical analysis and assessment of electricity markets
Fundamentals of electric power systems / Xiao-Ping Zhang -- Restructured electric power systems and electricity markets / Kwok W. Cheung ... [et al.] -- Overview of electricity market equilibrium problems and market power analysis / Xiao-Ping Zhang -- Computer the electricity market equilibrium : uses of market equilibrium models / Ross Baldick -- Hybrid bertrand-cournot models of electricity markets with multiple strategic subnetworks and common knowledge constraints / Jian Yao, Shmuel S. Oren, and Benjamin F. Hobbs -- Electricity market equilibrium with reactive power control / Xiao-Ping Zhang -- Using market simulations for economic assessment of transmission upgrades : application of the California ISO approach / Mohamed Labib Awad ... [et al.]
The application of electricity market equilibrium models in assessing the economic benefits of transmission expansions for market environments, forward and spot markets, short-term power system security, and analysis of reactive power impact
