Border crossing : Russian literature into film
Machine generated contents note: -- 1. -- Across the Russian Border / -- Thomas Leitch -- 2. -- Dostoevskii's "White Nights": The Dreamer Goes Abroad / -- Ronald Meyer -- 3. -- On Not Showing Dostoevskii's Work: Robert Bresson's Pickpocket / -- Olga Peters Hasty -- 4. -- Stealing the Scene: Crime as Confession in Robert Bresson's Pickpocket / -- S. Ceilidh Orr -- 5. -- The Eye-deology of Trauma: Killing Anna Karenina Softly / -- Yuri Leving -- 6. -- "A Vicious Circle": Karen Shakhnazarov's Ward no. 6 / -- Alexander Burry -- 7. -- A Slap in the Face of American Taste: Transporting He Who Gets Slapped to American Audiences / -- Frederick H. White -- 8. -- Against Adaptation? The Strange Case of (Pod) Poruchik Kizhe / -- Alastair Renfrew -- 9. -- Chasing the Wealth: The Americanization of Il'f and Petrov's The Twelve Chairs / -- Robert Mulcahy -- 10. -- Fassbinder's Nabokov -- From Text to Action: Repressed Homosexuality, Provocative Jewishness, and Anti-German Sentiment / -- Dennis Ioffe -- 11. -- "The Soviet Abroad (That We Lost)": The Fate of Vasilii Aksenov's Cult Novel A Starry Ticket on Paper and on Screen / -- Otto Boele
Each time a border is crossed there are cultural, political, and social issues to be considered. Applying the metaphor of the 'border crossing' from one temporal or spatial territory into another, Border Crossing: Russian Literature into Film examines the way classic Russian texts have been altered to suit new cinematic environments. In these essays, international scholars examine how political and economic circumstances, from a shifting Soviet political landscape to the perceived demands of American and European markets, have played a crucial role in dictating how filmmakers transpose their cinematic hypertext into a new environment. Rather than focus on the degree of accuracy or fidelity with which these films address their originating texts, this innovative collection explores the role of ideological, political, and other cultural pressures that can affect the transformation of literary narratives into cinematic offerings
