Electric vehicles from life cycle and circular economy perspective
Electric vehicles are anticipated to be a key future component of Europe's mobility system, helping reduce impacts on climate change and air quality. Battery electric vehicles (BEVs) comprised around 0.6 % of all new car registrations in the EU in 2017 (EEA, 2018a). By 2030, BEVs could be between 3.9 % and 13.0 % of new car registrations, depending on the EU-wide fleet average CO2 target levels set for passenger cars in the future (EC, 2017a). There is, therefore, an increasing need to understand BEVs from a systems perspective. This involves an in-depth consideration of the environmental impact of the product using life cycle assessment (LCA) as well as taking a broader 'circular economy' approach. On the one hand, LCA is a means of assessing the environmental impact associated with all stages of a product's life from cradle to grave: from raw material extraction and processing to the product's manufacture to its use in everyday life and finally to its end of life. On the other hand, the concept of a circular economy considers impacts and in turn solutions across the whole societal system. In a traditional linear economy products are made, used and then disposed of, whereas in a circular economy the value of materials and products is kept as high as possible for as long as possible (EEA, 2017b). This, in turn, helps reduce requirements for new materials and energy needs, ameliorating environmental pressures. Additional aspects that can be considered within the circular economy concept (e.g. Jackson, 2017; Kopnina, 2017; Ellen MacArthur Foundation, 2018) include the use of renewable energy and sustainable consumption, e.g. through the shared ownership of goods. Reflecting their relevance to BEVs, these additional aspects are also considered in this report. The aims of this report are to: - bring together existing evidence on the environmental impact of BEVs across the stages of their life cycle, undertaking where possible comparison with internal combustion engine vehicles (ICEVs); - consider how a move to a circular economy could reduce these impacts.
