Mapping varieties of industrial relations : Eurofound's analytical framework applied
The 2016 Eurofound report Mapping key dimensions of industrial relations defines industrial relations as the collective and individual governance of work and employment. It identifies four key dimensions. Industrial democracy, based on the direct and indirect participation rights of employers and employees in the governance of the employment relationship, the autonomy of both sides of industry as collective organisations and their collective capacity to influence decision-making. Industrial competitiveness, based on an economy with a consistently high rate of productivity growth and good performance of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). To be competitive, it is essential to promote research and innovation, information and communication technologies, entrepreneurship, competition, and education and training. Industrial competitiveness, based on an economy with a consistently high rate of productivity growth and good performance of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). To be competitive, it is essential to promote research and innovation, information and communication technologies, entrepreneurship, competition, and education and training. Quality of work and employment, based on career and employment security, health and well-being, the ability to reconcile working and non-working life, and the opportunity to develop skills over the life course. However, the interpretation, application and implementation of these key dimensions depend on the stakeholders’ affiliation and their national industrial relations system. Therefore, the report stresses the usefulness of further developing this conceptual framework, especially for cross-country comparisons and mutual learning processes. To this end, a first assessment of existing data sources and indicators was carried out. The current study is a continuation of this work, with the aim of further fine-tuning the set of indicators. It also assesses how and to what extent the conceptual framework of the key dimensions of industrial relations can be applied to the national level.
