The international handbook on the sociology of education : an international assessment of new research and theory
Introduction to a sociology of education : old dilemmas in a new century? / Carlos Alberto Torres & Ari Antikainen -- Social theory and methodology -- Sociological theory of education in the dialectical perspective / Honario Martín Izquierdo and Almudena Moreno Mínguez -- Explorations in the systems-theoretical study of education / Raf Vanderstraeten -- Social capital in education : theoretical issues and empirical knowledge in attainment research / Anne Bert Dijkstra and Jules L. Peschar -- Critical ethnography and the sociology of education / Steve Jordan -- Sociocultural approaches to cognition : implications for the sociology of education / David MacLennan -- Decisive moments and key experiences : expanding paradigmatic boundaries in the study of school effects / Gad Yair -- Biography, life course, and the sociology of education / Ari Antikainen and Katja Komonen -- Leading the way : the development of analytical techniques in the sociology of education / Lawrence J. Saha & John P. Keeves -- Sociology of education in international contexts : regional focus -- Educational policies and new ways of governance in a transnationalization period / António Teodoro Constructing the sociology of education as a unique discipline : the cases of mainland China and Taiwan / Jason C. Chang and Zhang Renjie -- Education in transition society : growing inequality / David Konstantinovski -- Education, power, and the state : successes and failures of Latin American education in the twentieth century / Carlos Alberto Torres -- Institutionalised legitimate informational capital in the welfare state : has policy failed? / Martin D. Munk -- Critical issues in sociology of education -- Making sense of education reform : global and national influences / Geoff Whitty and Sally Power -- Civil society as equilibrium governance and choice in education : between private delivery and central regulation / AnneBert Dijkstra and Jaap Dronkers -- Women and education in Europe / Ingrid Jönsson -- The North and South contrasted : cultural similarities and differences in affective education / Yaacov J. Katz ... [et al.] -- Citizens in the text? : international presentations of citizenship in textbooks / Siikka Aapola, Tuula Gordon, and Elina Lahelma
