Successful test management : an integral approach ; with 44 tables
For change projects to succeed, organizations must carry out targeted risk management. This certainly applies to the complex IT projects that are taking place under current market conditions! An important success factor in this is the continuous involvement of the client and other stakeholders. This is often entirely lacking or inadequate. However, a sound test management approach based on Risk & Requirement Based Testing helps to increase that involvement. It is aimed at identifying risks in connection with the development and implementation of an IT system, such as the loss of market share, compensation claims, damage to reputation or high maintenance costs. Test Management is not something that a Project Leader does 'on top of everything else'. There are countless activities that the Test Manager has to carry out. To provide insight into these activities and their relationship with each other, LogicaCMG has developed the Test Management Model. This model describes the Test Manager's activities from the start of a test project up to the moment of the information system's implementation, thus creating an integral whole. On the principle of Test Management = Risk Management, this book equips the reader to set up test projects, to manage them and to communicate with the stakeholders. Besides a description of the theory of each activity, the chapters provide as many hints and tips as possible: what works best in the Test Manager's working practice and what he should guard against. The appendices contain checklists and templates that support the chapters, and with these, the reader is able to set to work immediately. TOC:1. Testing and Test Management 2. Risk and Requirement based Testing 3. The Quick Scan 4. The Test Management File 5. Risk Analysis and Test Strategy 6. Estimation 7. Planning 8. The Test Organization 9. The Dynamics of Testing 10. Progress Management 11. Issue Management 12. Reporting and Advice 13. Evaluation and Transfer Appendix A - PRINCE2 and Test Management Appendix B - Checklist Product Risks Appendix C - Template Risk and Requirement Based Testing Appendix D - Quality Attributes according to ISO9126 Appendix E - Template Test Plan Appendix F - The Goal-Question-Metric Method (GQM) Appendix G - Checklist Project Risks Appendix H - Template Test Strategy Appendix I - Testing Roles Appendix J - Template Progress Report Appendix K - Template Phase Report Appendix L - Template Final Report Glossary, References
