Issues and trends in technology and human interaction
"This book provides a wide range of interesting and novel approaches to the relationship between technology and humans. It can be used for teaching as well as for research purposes; it contains insights that are of relevance for social and organizational use of information and communications technology"--Provided by publisher
Conducting feminist gender research in the information systems field / Eileen M. Trauth, Lynette Kvasny, Anita Greenhill -- A taxonomy of stakeholders : human roles in system development / Ian F. Alexander -- 21st century religious communities / Susan E. George -- Protecting one's privacy : insights into the views and nature of the early adopters of privacy services / Sarah Spiekermann -- A practitioner-centred assessment of a user-experience framework / Peter Wright, John McCarthy, Lisa Meekison -- Impacts of behavior modeling in online asynchronous learning environments / Charlie C. Chen, Albert L. Harris, Lorne Olfman -- The sociotechnical nature of mobile computing work : evidence from a study of policing in the United States / Steve Sawyer, Andrea Tapia -- Rhetoric, practice, and context-sensitivity in sociotechnical action : the compass case / Giuseppina Pellegrino -- The socio-pragmatics of IT artefacts : reconciling the pragmatic, social, semiotic and technical / Göran Goldkuhl, Pär J. Ågerfalk -- Sociotechnical spaces : guiding politics, staging design / Christian Clausen, Yutaka Yoshinaka -- Concerns with "mutual constitution" : a critical realist commentary / Alistair Mutch -- A framework for monitoring user involvement and participation in ERP implementation projects / José Esteves, Joan Pastor, Josep Casanovas -- Investigating the interdependence of organisations and information systems / Laurence Brooks, Christopher J. Davis, Mark Lycett -- USE IT to create patient relation management for multiple sclerosis patients / Margreet B. Michel-Verkerke, Roel W. Schuring, Ton A. M. Spil -- Contextual characteristics of creativity : effects on IT-supported organisational brainstorming / Dick Stenmark
