Growth management in Florida : planning for paradise
Introduction / Timothy S. Chapin, Charles E. Connerly, and Harrison T. Higgins -- The foundations of growth management in Florida -- A historical perspective for evaluating Florida's evolving growth management process / Thomas G. Pelham -- Consistency, concurrency and compact development: three faces of growth management implementation in Florida / Efraim Ben-Zadok -- The fiscal theory and reality of growth management in Florida / James C. Nicholas and Timothy S. Chapin -- Attitudes towards growth management in Florida: comparing resident support in 1985 and 2001 / Timothy S. Chapin and Charles E. Connerly -- Evaluating growth management's outcomes -- Growth and change Florida style: 1970 to 2000 / Thomas W. Sanchez and Robert H. Mandle -- Growth management and the spatial outcome of regional development in Florida, 1982-1997 / John I. Carruthers, Marlon G. Boarnet and Ralph B. McLaughlin -- Growth management or growth unabated? : economic development in Florida since 1990 / Timothy S. Chapin -- Compact urban form or business as usual? : an examination of urban form in Orange County, Florida / Gerrit-Jan Knaap and Yan Song -- The spillover effects of growth management: constraints on new housing construction / Yan Song -- Are we any safer? : an evaluation of Florida's hurricane hazard mitigation planning mandates / Robert E. Deyle, Timothy S. Chapin, and Earl J. Baker -- Urban containment and neighborhood quality in Florida / Arthur C. Nelson, Casey J. Dawkins, Thomas W. Sanchez, and Karen A. Danielsen -- Innovations and limitations of the Florida growth management experiment -- Transportation concurrency: an idea before its time? / Ruth L. Steiner -- Why do Florida counties adopt urban growth boundaries? / Randall G. Holcombe -- Paying for the "priceless"? : Florida forever, managing growth, and public land acquisition / Harrison T. Higgins and Neil B. Paradise -- Affordable housing in Florida: why haven't Florida's growth management laws met the challenge of adequately housing all its citizens? / Charles E. Connerly -- Documenting the rise of impact fees in Florida / Gregory S. Burge and Keith R. Ihlanfeldt -- Conclusion -- The 1985 Florida GMA: satan or savior? / Timothy S. Chapin, Charles E. Connerly, Harrison T, Higgins -- Index
