Novel cytotoxic glycosyltransferase effectors of Legionella
Abstract: Legionella pneumophila and Legionella longbeachae are Gram negative bacteria, which cause  Legionnaires' disease, a severe form of pneumonia. The pathogens replicate inside host cells.  Therefore, the bacteria produce a large array of effectors, which are secreted by the Dot/Icm  (Defective in organelle trafficking/Intracellular multiplication) type 4 secretion system (T4SS) into  the cytosol of the target cell. Many of the injected effectors possess enzyme activities and,  thereby, interfere with host cell functions to promote intracellular bacterial multiplication. Some  L. pneumophila effectors (e.g. Lgt1-3 and SetA) harbor glycosyltransferase (GT) activities and  share structural similarity with clostridial glucosylating toxins, which are the prototypes of  glucosylating virulence factors.  Aim of the study was the identification of novel putative Legionella glycosyltransferases by  genome sequence analysis and their characterization by biochemical, molecular- and cell  biological methods. In the first part of the thesis, the L. longbeachae protein Llo1578 was  analyzed, which shares amino acids sequence similarity with the Lgt glucosyltransferases from  L. pneumophila. Llo1578 displayed in vitro glucohydrolase and autoglucosylating activities using  UDP-glucose as a sugar donor. Expression of Llo1578 in yeast exhibited cytotoxic effects, which  were dependent on the glucosylating activity of the protein. Thus, the variants of Llo1578 with  the mutations in the identified catalytic residues W23, D126, D142, N177 and W326 did not affect  yeast growth. However, in contrast to the Lgt glucosyltransferases, Llo1578 did not affect in vitro  translation and did not modify EF1A, the substrate of the Lgt effectors. Therefore, this study  suggests that Llo1578 likely belongs to a new group of Legionella glucosyltransferases with an  unknown acceptor specificity.   The second part of the thesis was focused on the novel L. pneumophila effector LtpM (Legionella  translocating protein M). The study revealed that LtpM is a two-domain protein, which consists  of an N-terminal glycosyltransferase domain and a C-terminal phosphatidyl inositol 3-phosphate  (PI3P)-binding domain. My studies showed that the N-terminal domain of LtpM is responsible for  its glucohydrolase activity with UDP-glucose as the preferred activated sugar. The affinity of LtpM  for PI3P was determined by surface plasmon resonance (SPR) spectroscopy and revealed a Kd  value of 591 ± 117 n ...
