Mass wasting and the Coriolis effect on asteroid Vesta
This work investigates the influence of the Coriolis force on mass motion related to the Rheasilvia impact basin on asteroid (4) Vesta's southern hemisphere. The giant basin is 500km in diameter, with a centre which nearly coincides with the rotation axis of Vesta. The Rheasilvia basin partially overlaps an earlier, similarly large impact basin, Veneneia. Mass motion within and in the vicinity of the Rheasilvia basin includes slumping and landslides, which, primarily due to their small linear extents, have not been noticeably affected by the Coriolis force. However, a series of ridges related to the basin exhibit significant curvature, which may record the effect of the Coriolis force on the mass motion which generated them. In this thesis 32 of these curved ridges, in three geologically distinct regions, were examined. The mass motion velocities from which the ridge curvatures may have resulted during the crater modification stage were investigated. Velocity profiles were derived by fitting inertial circles along the curved ridges and considering both the current and past rotation states of Vesta. An iterative, statistical approach was used, whereby the radii of inertial circles were obtained through repeated fitting to triplets of points across the ridges. The most frequently found radius for each central point was then used for velocity derivation at that point. The results of the velocity analysis are strongly supportive of a Coriolis force origin for the curved ridges. Derived velocities (29.6 ± 24.6 m/s) generally agree well with previously published predictions from numerical simulations of mass motion during the impact process. Topographical features such as local slope gradient and mass deposition regions on the curved ridges also independently agree with regions in which the calculated mass motion accelerates or decelerates. Sections of constant acceleration, deceleration and constant velocity are found, showing that mass motion is being governed by varying conditions of topography, regolith structure and friction. Estimates of material properties such as the effective viscosities (1.9-9.0·10⁶ Pa·s) and coefficients of friction (0.02-0.81) are derived from the velocity profile information in these sections. From measured accelerations of mass motions on the crater wall, it is also shown that the crater walls must have been locally steeper at the time of the mass motion. Together with these novel insights into the state and behaviour of material moving during the modification stage of Rheasilvia's formation, this work represents the first time that the Coriolis Effect on mass motions during crater formation has been shown to result in diagnostic features preserved until today.
