Multi-spectrum retrieval of maps of Venus´ surface emissivity in the infrared
The main goal of this cumulative thesis is the derivation of surface emissivity data in the infrared from radiance measurements of Venus. Since these data are diagnostic of the chemical composition and grain size of the surface material, they can help to improve knowledge of the planet’s geology. Spectrally resolved images of nightside emissions in the range 1.0-5.1 μm were recently acquired by the InfraRed Mapping channel of the Visible and InfraRed Thermal Imaging Spectrometer (VIRTIS-M-IR) aboard ESA’s Venus EXpress (VEX). Surface and deep atmospheric thermal emissions in this spectral range are strongly obscured by the extremely opaque atmosphere, but three narrow spectral windows at 1.02, 1.10, and 1.18 μm allow the sounding of the surface. Additional windows between 1.3 and 2.6 μm provide information on atmospheric parameters that is required to interpret the surface signals. Quantitative data on surface and atmosphere can be retrieved from the measured spectra by comparing them to simulated spectra. A numerical radiative transfer model is used in this work to simulate the observable radiation as a function of atmospheric, surface, and instrumental parameters. It is a line-by-line model taking into account thermal emissions by surface and atmosphere as well as absorption and multiple scattering by gases and clouds. The VIRTIS-M-IR measurements are first preprocessed to obtain an optimal data basis for the subsequent steps. In this process, a detailed detector responsivity analysis enables the optimization of the data consistency. The measurement data have a relatively low spectral information content, and different parameter vectors can describe the same measured spectrum equally well. A usual method to regularize the retrieval of the wanted parameters from a measured spectrum is to take into account a priori mean values and standard deviations of the parameters to be retrieved. This decreases the probability to obtain unreasonable parameter values. The multi-spectrum retrieval algorithm MSR is developed to additionally consider physically realistic spatial and temporal a priori correlations between retrieval parameters describing different measurements. Neglecting geologic activity, MSR also allows the retrieval of an emissivity map as a parameter vector that is common to several spectrally resolved images that cover the same surface target. Even applying MSR, it is difficult to obtain reliable emissivity maps in absolute values. A detailed retrieval error analysis based on synthetic spectra reveals that this is mainly due to interferences from parameters that cannot be derived from the spectra themselves, but that have to be set to assumed values to enable the radiative transfer simulations. The MSR retrieval of emissivity maps relative to a fixed emissivity is shown to effectively avoid most emissivity retrieval errors. Relative emissivity maps at 1.02, 1.10, and 1.18 μm are finally derived from many VIRTIS-M-IR measurements that cover a surface target at Themis Regio. They are interpreted as spatial variations relative to an assumed emissivity mean of the target. It is verified that the maps are largely independent of the choice of many interfering parameters as well as the utilized measurement data set. These are the first Venus IR emissivity data maps based on a consistent application of a full radiative transfer simulation and a retrieval algorithm that respects a priori information. The maps are sufficiently reliable for future geologic interpretations.
