The plant cytoskeleton as a transportation network
The cytoskeleton is an essential component of living cells. It is composed of different types of protein filaments that form complex, dynamically rearranging, and interconnected networks. The cytoskeleton serves a multitude of cellular functions which further depend on the cell context. In animal cells, the cytoskeleton prominently shapes the cell's mechanical properties and movement. In plant cells, in contrast, the presence of a rigid cell wall as well as their larger sizes highlight the role of the cytoskeleton in long-distance intracellular transport. As it provides the basis for cell growth and biomass production, cytoskeletal transport in plant cells is of direct environmental and economical relevance. However, while knowledge about the molecular details of the cytoskeletal transport is growing rapidly, the organizational principles that shape these processes on a whole-cell level remain elusive.This thesis is devoted to the following question: How does the complex architecture of the plant cytoskeleton relate to its transport functionality? The answer requires a systems level perspective of plant cytoskeletal structure and transport. To this end, I combined state-of-the-art confocal microscopy, quantitative digital image analysis, and mathematically powerful, intuitively accessible graph-theoretical approaches. This thesis summarizes five of my publications that shed light on the plant cytoskeleton as a transportation network: (1) I developed network-based frameworks for accurate, automated quantification of cytoskeletal structures, applicable in, e.g., genetic or chemical screens; (2) I showed that the actin cytoskeleton displays properties of efficient transport networks, hinting at its biological design principles; (3) Using multi-objective optimization, I demonstrated that different plant cell types sustain cytoskeletal networks with cell-type specific and near-optimal organization; (4) By investigating actual transport of organelles through the cell, I showed that properties of the actin cytoskeleton are predictive of organelle flow and provided quantitative evidence for a coordination of transport at a cellular level; (5) I devised a robust, optimization-based method to identify individual cytoskeletal filaments from a given network representation, allowing the investigation of single filament properties in the network context. The developed methods were made publicly available as open-source software tools.Altogether, my findings and proposed frameworks provide quantitative, system-level insights into intracellular transport in living cells. Despite my focus on the plant cytoskeleton, the established combination of experimental and theoretical approaches is readily applicable to different organisms. Despite the necessity of detailed molecular studies, only a complementary, systemic perspective, as presented here, enables both understanding of cytoskeletal function in its evolutionary context as well as its future technological control and utilization.
